The Northeast includes many historical monuments in the Khmer style from prehistoric times to the 13th century.
Prasat Hin Khao Phanom Rung is one of the most important monument, this is the only Khmer religious monument constructed on a natural mountain.
Restorations have made a great contribution to the study of Khmer architecture in Thailand.
A special festival is Phanom Rung Fair, held either March or April each year.
Si Satchanalai Historical Park, A satellite town of the Sukhothai era, Si Satchanalai is located on the bank of Yom River, 50 kilometers from modern Sukhothai. Ruins of 134 monuments have been discovered in the park.
The city plan was laid out along fixed cosmological lines – temple complexes lay at its heart, surrounded by city walls, rivers and forest.
The annual Songkran Festival is held in April within the historical park itself and throughout the province.
Kamphaeng Phet was an important city of the Sukhothai Kingdom from the 13th to 15th centuries.
The earliest mention of the city appears in the stone inscriptions from Wat Mahathat and Wat Phra Sri in Kamphaeng Phet.
The Ayutthaya annuals mention that Kamphaeng Phet city was known as “Muang Chakangrau” and was ruled by a prince from Sukhothai.
Cultural and folk festivities are held in April each year to celebrate the Nop Phra Len Pleng Festival in Thailand.
The large ancient city of Sri Thep in the Pasak River basin served as a centre of communications between the cities in central Thailand and those in the North and Northeast for a long period.
Archaeological excavations conducted in the Pasak and Lop Buri river basins have revealed that highly-developed prehistoric cultures flourished with more advanced technology than that of any other sites in neighboring areas.
Ayutthaya Historical Park, From the 14th to 18th centuries, Ayutthaya was the capital of the central Thai Kingdom for 417 years. 
With influences from Dvaravati, Khmer, Mon, and Lawa cultures, Ayutthaya was able to create its own arts and culture from a delicate blend of those cultures.
During the reigns of 33 kings, Ayutthaya gave Thailand a great number of fine buildings, monuments and works of art.
Ayutthaya was selected as a World Heritage Site in 1994 and an annual festival, Ayutthaya World Heritage Day, is held in December within the historical park.
The largest stone monument in the Northeast is Prasat Hin Phimai in Phimai Historical Park.
Prasat Hin Phimai is particular monument became the prototype of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, Which makes it of even greater historical and aesthetic importance.
An annual Phimai Festival within the historical park is held in November, Festivities include a special light and sound show and classical dances.
Phra Nakhon Khiri Historical Park is in Phetchaburi Provice, an important satellite city of Ayutthaya. Commonly called Khao Wang (the palace on the mountain).
Phra Nakhon Khiri was built on top of Samana mountain ad a summer palace for King Rama IV.
Within the Phra Nakhon Khiri park area are royal halls, temples and groups of buildings, constructed in harmonious Thai, Western neoclassic and Chinese architectural styles.
The museum on the western hilltop exhibits some royal paraphernalia of King Rama IV and King Rama V, decorative sculptures and ceramics from China, Japan and Europe.
The Phra Nakhon Khiri Fair is held each year with lots of activities to promote tourism to the site and a trade fair of local handicrafts
Phu Phra Bat Historical Park, is situated on the Phu Phra Bat hill of Phu Phan Mountain.
There are 62 archaeological and cultural sites offering prehistoric rock paintings from about 4,000 to 2,000 years ago, in the Phu Phra Bat Historical Park. 
Within the historical park is also the site of sputa constructed during the 1920s, and a Buddha’s footprint.
Festivities for tourists are held each year in October in the park and its vicinity to celebrate Usabaros Day and Ban Chiang World Heritage Day.
The Thai spa experience brings together a range of indigenous resources, folk wisdom and traditions that have been handed down through the centuries.
Spa operators delve into this ancient treasure trove to create exceptional spa products so that alluring dimensions of this tropical paradise enrich the spa experience.
Gracious hospitality and service is complemented by the friendly and caring nature and gentle ways of the Thai people, adding a uniquely Thai touch to world-class service and hospitality.
Kindness, compassion and the act of comforting and caring for others, as advocated by the Theravada Buddhist tradition, is very much part of everyday life.
Many of the healing techniques and well-being therapies featured on the contemporary spa menu have been adopted and adapted from such practices.
These spa include natural healing a tradition based on the healing power of indigenous herbs and plants, holistic remedies specially formulated to restore balance and rejuvenate mind, body and spirit and a variety of other healing techniques, including meditative practices, which reflect deep-rooted Buddhist influences.
the act of performing traditional Thai Massage is considered to be an act of compassion in which the healer (or therapist) practices the physical application of metta (loving kindness) and bestows a healing touch in the spirit of giving.
The Thai spa experience thus enables guests to experience various aspects of Thai-ness.
Thailand excels in the quality and diversity of its spa offerings.
Thai spas really do have it all variety and value framed in a perfect blend of Western leisure concepts and traditional Asian wellbeing therapies.
A harmonious blend of cultural heritage and destination diversity makes Thailand an infinitely attractive spa destination.
Rafting is fast gaining popularity among the young and young at heart.
 Thailand’s, the mountainous regions of the North are the natural venue for whitewater rafting, especially after the rains from June to October when the rivers swell with floodwater.
First-class rafting is also to be found in the northern reaches of the central region of Thailand.
Tak, a mountainous province south of Chiang Mai is an increasingly popular adventure destination
The hub of activities is Umphang District on the border with Myanmar which is now accessible via a winding mountain route from Mae Sot, the centre of border trade.
The forests of Umphang are the source of many rivers, the most important being the Huai Mae Klong, a popular rafting route with its many rapids and scenic backdrops of jungle.
There’s also a rafting route from the breathtaking Thi Lo Su Waterfall which takes three to four hours in Tak.
There are five levels of expertise, and all require experienced guides to lead them but Mae Hong Song’sPai River is perhaps the most famous venue, as it smashes its angry path towards Myanmar.
A raft trip starts at Ban Nam Kong, 65 km from Pai and continues through virgin forests, waterfalls and 15 sets of rapids, a journey time of about five hours.
	One of the oldest rafting destinations in the country, Chiang Rai continues to draw adventure seekers from all over the globe.
In Chiang Rai, bamboo rafts and inflatable boats are available for the journey down the Mae Kok, the province’s major artery.
Rafting down the Mae Chaem through Ob Luang George in inflatable boats is available through Mae Sot Travel.
Another challenging route is the Mae Tuen in Omkoi District, where the river rushes through virgin forests to end at the Pha Dam Waterfall.
Nam Wa stream in Nan is recognised as an ultimate rafting adventure.
Local rafting operators are offering soft adventure tour for rafting buffs wanting to test out their skills.
The three – day tour features rafting through a series of rapids, such as Sop Huai Duea and Phi Pa, on specially – designed rubber rafts.
Visitors can also use the opportunity to explore the cool jungle setting of Doi Phu Kha and Mae Charim mountains
At Khao Yai National Park, the Kaeng Hin Phoeng in Nadi district of Prachin Buri is a stretch of river noted for its wild beauty.
The water is very vigorous During the rainy months (June – October), and some stretches are designated Level 5 , the uppermost limit to whitewater rafting.
On the western border, Kanchanaburi is a popular adventure destination thanks to its mountainous terrain, covered with forests and crisscrossed with a network of rivers.
Jungle rafting can be arranged from a mountain pass to the stunning Lawa Cave, a two-hour journey.
Bamboo and inflatable rafts are also available for a trip down the Songkalia in Sangkhlaburi.
The headwater of Phetchaburi River, the province’s major artery, lies within Kaeng Krachan National Park.
The river offers good rafting; a trip through its rapids and small tributaries takes about six hours.
As a rule, canoeing and kayaking is available at the destinations that provide rafting.
Nakhon Nayok, a small province to the north of Bangkok, is a new destination for adventure tourism.
Nakhon Nayok’s rivers originate in the Khao Yai range and flow down to meet the arterial Bang Pakong River, which empties into Gulf of Thailand.
Nakhon Nayok has several waterfalls, the most popular being Wang Takhrai; Canoeing here is relatively new and the best time to visit is June – October. 
Khek River flows past Thung salaeng Luang National Park and forms the famous Sri Dit and Kaeng Sopha waterfalls of Phitsanulok.
The water course passing Wang Thong county before joining the Nan river at Bang Krathum county is also called the Wang Thong river.
Keg River is the good place for rafting as it provides exciting routes for tourists for Ban PakYang, Sapraiwan sub-district, Wang Thong district to Kang Song waterfall which lasts 8 kms.
You will experience the water speed at level 1-2 and gradually in crease the intensity to level 4-5 in the end, this allows you to practice your skill in rafting along the way.
You get off a car you can get on a raft promptly, and when you get out of a raft you can get on a car or bus conveniently as well.
Rafting on Kaeng Hin Phoeng is another stretch of river in Khao Yai National Park noted for its wild beauty. 
The water is especially challenging in the rainy season months of June to October, and it is a favourite place for whitewater rafting.
Safety is paramount in whitewater rafting and life jackets and helmets must be worm at all times.
Your guide should explain to you all relevant safety procedures before you go for rafting, and check weather reports and the condition of the river.
You should be able to swim if you wish to go whitewater rafting.
It is important to ensure that you are in good health, and fit enough to enjoy this activity of river rafting.
Children over 12 but fewer than 16 must be accompanied by responsible adults; For children under 12 years or for elderly people, only the Thi Lo Su Waterfall programme in May and June is recommended.
Scuba diving is Thailand’s most popular water sport and the country boosts some of the most beautiful dive sites in the world – the water is clear, sea life plentiful, transport and accommodation readily available and instruction to a very high standard.
Diving in Thailand is comparatively cheap, and once you have achieved your certification in Thailand, you can use it to go scuba-diving all over the world.
Diving is available at all times of the year, although visibility changes according to the season.
In the Andaman Sea, the best time to dive is from October to April, and in the Gulf of Thailand from May to September.
At recommended dive sites in Thailand the water is so clear that the under-water world is visible from the surface: whale sharks, manta rays, marlin, flying fish, dolphins and coral reefs.
All reputable dive shops are affiliated with PADI or other international dive bodies, and most hold courses in multiple languages.
All over Thailand, you can expect modern amenities, international standard boats and professional facilities.
Friends and family can relax, swim, sunbathe, snorkel and still enjoy the food, trip, scenery and experience of sailing in some of the world’s most beautiful waters.
Transfer from Phuket Airport to Chalong Bay and Board night boat from the bay to Similan islands.
Arrive Similan, rest of the day at dive sites around island exploring the reefs of the Similan Archipelago and myriad colours exhibited by countless fish and corals.
Continue your diving odyssey at three locations, three daytime dives are scheduled at Ko Bon island and Ko Tachai, home to manta rays, whale sharks and colourful coral and there is one dive at Surin Island.
Dive sites are found off the coast of Phuket with prime spots such as Shark Point, Red Rock, Ko Yao, Ko Yai, and the twin islands of Ko Racha, extending to the Similan and Surin islands to the west, Krabi and Trang to the east.
GULF OF THAILAND : Sites are around Ko Samui, Ko Pha-ngan, Ko Tao, Ko Nang Yuan, Mu Ko Ang Thong Marine National Park, and Ko Chang in Trat Province near the Combodian border.
On the east coast of the Gulf, Pattaya offers dive trips out to Ko Larn, Ko Sak, Ko Krok, Ko Rin, Ko Pai and Ko Marn Vichai.
All the recommended dive companies listed here are PADI certified and have well qualified, experienced staff; As long as divers follow instructions and are prepared, there is less danger than swimming in the sea.
Anyone over the age of 12 can do a PADI certified course.
Ayn one can do a PADI Certified course as long as they are in good medical condition and have no history of asthma, heart or breathing problems, a severe cold or problems with your ears, then they are ready to dive
There are some precautions and preparations that should be taken before diving, whether you are experienced or a beginner; Never go diving too soon after or before flying and the change in atmospheric pressure can cause “The Bends” either underwater or in the air, so divers should always consult an instructor to time diving and training to flight schedules
Never dive after a heavy meal and the blood flows to the stomach to aid digestion and may cause cramp.
 Never consume alcohol before diving (including the night before); The underwater effect of alcohol is multiplied many times, leading to disorientation and lack of judgment.