Jaipur, popularly known as the Pink City, is the capital of Rajasthan state, India.
The city is famous for its majestic forts, palaces and beautiful lakes which attract tourists from all over world.
The city palace was built by Maharaja Jai Singh II and is a synthesis of Mughal & Rajasthani architecture.
Hawa mahal was built by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh in 1799 AD and Lal Chand Usta was the architect.
The Amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces, halls, stairways, pillared pavilions, gardens & temples.
Amber palace is a classic example of Mughal & Hindu architecture.
Government Central Museum was constructed in 1876 when Prince of Wales has visited India and opened to public in 1886.
Government Central Museum has a rich collection of ivory work, textiles, jewellery, carved wooden objects, miniature paintings, marble statues, arms and weapons.
Sisodiya Rani-Ka-Bagh was built by Sawai Jai Singh II for his Sisodiya Queen.
The Jal Mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties.
Kanak Vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in Jaipur.
Jaipur bazaars are vibrant and the shops are full with colorful items which include - handicraft items, precious stones, textiles, Minakari items, jewellery, Rajasthani paintings, etc.
Jaipur is also famous for marble statues, blue pottery and the Rajasthani shoes.
The main markets of Jaipur, from where you can buy some useful items are along Jauhari Bazar, Bapu Bazar, Nehru Bazar, Chaura Rasta, Tripolia Bazar and M.I. Raod.
The best time to visit Jaipur city is in between October to March.
Rajasthan State Transport Corporation (RSTC) has bus services to all the major destinations of north India.
Bharatpur, the 'gateway to eastern Rajasthan' acquires its own importance in the tourist map of India.
A major tourist destination in the Indian map today, Bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century BCE.
The 18th century Bharatpur Bird Sanctuary, which is also known as the Keoladeo Ghana National park.
The 18th century Bharatpur Bird Sancttuary, which is also known as the Keoladeo Ghana National park, is famous as the most important bird breeding and feeding habitat of the world.
Lohagarh is also known as the Iron fort, Lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of Bharatpur.
The Bharatpur museum is a major source to have a date with the past royal glory of the place.
A beautiful garden, the Nehru Park, lies close to the Bharatpur museum.
The Nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn, attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty.
The Deeg Palace is a strong and massive fort, which acted as the summer resort for the rulers of Bharatpur.
The best time to visit Bharatpur is during the months of October, November, February and March.
One can take up several means of transportation like taxis, cycle-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws to move from one place to another in Bharatpur.
Centrally located in the western part of the state Rajasthan, the Jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces, forts & temples, worth visiting.
Centrally located in the western part of the state Rajasthan, the Jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces, forts & temples, worth visiting.
The economy of the city depends on several industries including handicraft, textiles & some metal based industries.
Located at the heart of the desert, this city of Rajasthan is the majestic jewel of Rajasthan's eternal crown.
Jodhpur, called the Land of the Dead, was founded by Rao Jodha, the chief of a clan known as the Rathores in 1459.
Mehrangarh Fort is one of the largest forts in India, situated on a hill top of 125m and spread over an area of 5km.
There are several decorated palaces like Moti Mahal, Phool Mahal, Sheesh Mahal are located inside the Mehrangarh Fort.
Also the museum inside the Mehrangarh Fort has a rich collection of miniatures, musical instruments, costumes, armoury etc.
Mehrangarh Fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city.
Umaid Bhawn Place is built up of red sandstone & marble and it took almost 16 years from 1929 to 1943 under the supervision of Maharaja Umaid Singh.
Jaswant Thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of Maharaja Jaswant Singh II.
There are some portraits of the rulers of Jodhpur also displayed at Jaswant Thada.
Government Museum is located in the middle of the Umaid garden and has a rich collection of weapons, textiles, paintings, manuscripts, portraits, local art & crafts.
Balsamand Lake & Palace is an artificial lake is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 AD.
The Marwar is the main festival takes place in the month October.
Jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture, traditional jodhpuri handicrafts, dye textiles, leather shoes, antiques, embroidered shoes carpets, Tie & Dye Sarees, silver jewellery, local handicrafts & textiles, lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from Jodhpur.
The Central Market, Sojati Gate, Station Road, Sardar Market, Tripollia Bazaar, Mochi Bazaar, Lakhera Bazar are some of the best shopping place in Jodhpur.
October to March is the best time to visit the Jaipur city.
Unmetered taxis, auto:rikshaws, tempos and cycle rikshaws are the main mode of transportation within the Jodhpur city.
Jodhpur has its own airport which is connected to Jaipur, Delhi, Udaipur, Mumbai and some other major cities.
The Jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside Rajasthan.
Jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters.
October to February is considered to be the best period to visit Jaisalmer.
Located at a distance of 16 km from Jaisalmer, Lodurva was ancient capital of Jaisalmer.
One of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of Jaisalmer, Lodurva is known for the famous Jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year.
The main attraction of the Jain temple is a divine tree called as 'Kalptaru' and the famous carvings and dome add extra charm to the temple.
Wood Fossil Park is one of the best excursion sites available in the surroundings of Jaisalmer.
Famous for the million year old fossils, the Wood Fossil park is a geological landmark of the Thar Desert, Jaisalmer.
The beauty of Thar Desert is best described with the help of Sam Sand Dunes, located at a distance of 42 km from Jaisalmer.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the best nature's gift to the human beings.
Hundreds and thousands of visitors come to Rajasthan to witness Sam Sand Dunes's wonderful artistic view of the nature and the place can be best covered with the help of camel safari.
45 km away from the desert city of Jaisalmer, Desert Natinal Park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills.
The best excursion site, Desert National Park is famous for the black buck, chinkara, desert fox and the great Indian bustard.
One of the best havelis of Jaisalmer, Amar Sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers.
Constructed in the pattern of apartments, the Amar Sagar haveli is a five story high haveli adorned with beautiful painted murals.
Udaipur is the historic capital of former kingdom of Mewar and now the administrative headquarters of Udaipur districts.
Udaipur, the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green Aravali range and crystal clear water lake.
A perfect combination of romance and beauty, Udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters, poets and writers.
Udaipur is situated in the southern part of Rajasthan and surrounded by the Aravalli range.
Udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes, well structured palaces, lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the Lake Palace and the City Palace.
City Palace is situated on the banks of Lake Pichola, a magnificant and inspiring citadel designed with the help of mirror and glass works.
A perfect combination of arts and design,City palace is known for its advancement in technology and architecture.
A part of City Palace is now converted into a museum that displays some of the best forms of art and culture.
Udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty, one of the famous city of Rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts.
Jag Mandir, Fateh Prakash Palace, Crystal Gallery and Shilpagram are some of the best monuments and sites situated in the surroundings of the Udaipur.
Jag Mandir is an island palace located in Pichola Lake, constructed by Maharana Karan Singh for the hideout of prince hurram.
Jag Mandir is also known for its beautiful gardens, courtyard and carved "Chhatri" presented in grey and blue stone.
Fateh Prakash Palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states Udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture.
Shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept.
A perfect blend of arts, culture and craft is presented in Shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material.
Mewar festival is one of the important festival of Udaipur and held every year in the month of April.
Shopping in Udaipur is always a delightful experience and it displays excellent handicrafts and works developed by local traders.
The main markets of Udaipur are Palace Road, Hathi Pol, Bada Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and Chetak Circle. Rajasthali, is the approved emporium of the Rajasthan government.
September to March is the best season to visit Udaipur.
The royal city Bikaner has a timeless charm like no other.
This desert city of Rajasthan is famous for its attractions which include - forts, temples & Camel Festival. Known as the camel country, Bikaner is has also made a mark in industrial sector.
Best known to the world for its Bikaneri sweets & snacks, Bikaner's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in Raajsthan's economy.
Bikaner is also one major hub for the tourists looking for an adventurous Camel ride, which gives an insight into the exquisite lifestyle of remote Rajasthan.
There is a museum inside the Junagarh Fort which has collections of valuable antique objects.
The Lalgarh Palace was built by Maharaja Ganga Singh and is situated 3 km north of Bikaner city.
The Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) has converted a portion of Lalgarh Palace into a hotel.
There is also a library inside the Lalgarh palace which has a large collection of sanskrit manuscripts.
The Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary is 32 kms away from the Bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds.
The Bhandeshwar & Sandeshwar Temple were built by two brothers and are dedicated to Jain Teerthankar, Parsvanathji.
The mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of Bhandeshwar & Sandeshwar temples.
The Ganga Golden Jubilee Museum has a large collection of pottery, paintings, carpets, coins, and armory.
The Camel Festival is held in the month of January every year and is organized by the Department of Tourism, Art & Culture, and Rajasthan.
The famous Bikaneri Bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in Bikaner.
Best Month to Visit October to March is the best period to visit the city.
Mount Abu is the only hill station of Rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the Aravalli range.
During British rule Mount Abu became the favorite summer destination of the British.
Gaumukh Temple is dedicated to Lord Rama, this small temple is situated 4 kms south of Mount Abu, and derived its name from a natural spring flowing through the mouth of a marble cow.
Nakki Lake, is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills, beautiful parks and is a must visit place.