So strategic is its location at the cross roads of north and south India, that Mohammedbin Tughlak and Aurangjeb, two powerful kings attempted to translocate their capital from Delhi to Aurangabad.
Their vision was clear from Aurangabad they would be better able to control both northern and southern regions of their empires.
The fact they failed should not be attributed to the inherent flaws in their scheme as it should on the less evident fact that their empires were crumbling.
Under Aurangzeb, Aurangabad became the seat of the powerful Mughal Empire for a short while.
His predecessors’ preferred Agra, Delhi or Lahore all in the north, and Aurangzeb's move was not unopposed.
The Mughal court moved to Aurangabad and remained there till his death.
Built during his years in Aurangabad were such architectural gems as the Bibi ka Maqbara, a mausoleum with a marked resemblance to the Taj Mahal and a medieval watermill.
Aurangabad became a thriving industrial centre with many fine academic institutions.
Its textiles became much sought after and even today, the weavers of Aurangabad produce fine textiles like pathani, himroo and kimkhwab.
But Aurangabad's crowning glory is undoubtedly the famous Buddhist caves at Ajanta & the magnificent rock temples of Ellora.
Built between 200 BC and 650 AD, the Viharas and Chaityas at Ajanta are masterpieces as are the incredibly ornate temples carved out of hard rock at Ellora.
Area 316,421sq km Population 592,000 (approx.)Language Marathi, Urdu, Hindi, and English Religion Hindu, Muslim State Maharashtra For more tourist information on Aurangabad, click into the links below or on the .
Habitat Aurangabad city is located in the northern part of the state of Maharashtra, in the western region of India.
375 km away from the state capital, Mumbai, Aurangabad sits in a strategic position on the Deccan Plateau.
The city is surrounded by hills of the Vindhya Ranges and the River Kham passes through it.
The history of Aurangabad can be traced back to 1610, when the former Abyssinian slave and then prime minister of the Muslim kingdom of Ahmednagar, Malik Ambar establishment a city on the site of an old village called Khirki.
His son Fateh Khan named the city he ruled over, Fatehpur in 1626. 
Buddhism was introduced to this region during the reign of the powerful Mauryan Emperors and its rapid acceptance is evident in the profusion of Buddhist cave temples found in and around modern Aurangabad.
The Hindu temples of Ellora built by the kings of the Satvahana and Rashtrakuta dynasties predate the influx of Buddhism Strategically located in the centre of India, the region was considered the safest from the marauding armies of the Afghan and Central Asian raiders.
The Tughlaq King Mohammed bin Tughlaq of the Delhi Sultanat moved his capital from Delhi, along with the citizens to this area in the 14th century but failed due to poor logistical planning.
Later on, when the control of the Deccan kingdoms passed into the hands of the Mughals, the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb renamed the city Aurangabad when he made it the base of his campaigns into the Deccan.
Aurangzeb, the last great Mughal Emperor took over this city in 1653 and renamed it Aurangabad.
Because of its strategic location in peninsular India, Aurangzeb made it his capital from where he tried to quell the rising power of the Marathas.
After his death in 1707, the city was taken over by the Nizam of Hyderabad who retained control till it was merged with Maharashtra in 1956.
 Modern Aurangabad retains an Islamic ambience and still retains an old world charm Veiled women (in Burkhas) move about in the Chowk area, the call of the muezzin can be heard over the din and bustle of traffic, and come Friday, large crowds veer towards the mosques for ritual prayers.
But the city has donned a more contemporary face as a major industrial centre for pharmaceuticals, automobiles, textiles and electronics and as the gateway to the cave temples of Ajanta & Ellora.
Sightseeing The most famous monument in Aurangabad is the Bibi ka Maqbara, the mausoleum of Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb’s queen.
Inspired the Taj Mahal, it was built as the final resting place of Begum Rabia Daurani.
A poor replica of the Taj, it was designed and built by Ata Ullah whose name is engraved on its door.
But some questions remain unanswered was it built for the Emperors first wife or his second? 
A couple of km north of the Bibi ka Maqbara is a cluster of nine rock cut Buddhist caves  which date back to the 4th  8th  century when the Vakatakas and Chalukyas ruled over the region.
They are categorized into eastern and western caves but all belong to the Mahayana Vihara type except the 4 the one, which is a chaitya or prayer hall of the Hinayana sect of Buddhism.
They have their own story to tell and are certainly worth a visit.
The Panchakki is an interesting water powered flourmill built in the 17th century, an engineering masterpiece of its day.
The water is pumped from a reservoir 6 km away into a tank, that today houses entire shoals of khol fish.
It lays in the same complex as a memorial to the Sufi saint Baba Shah Muzaffar, Aurangzeb’s spiritual guide.
There are a number of important tourist spots just beyond the city limits of Aurangabad the Buddhist Caves at Ajanta, the rock temples of Ellora, the caves at Pithalkhora, the fortress of Daulatabad ,Paithan , famed for its woven masterpieces, the pilgrim centre of Grishneshwar  and Khuldabad , the final resting place of the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb.
Without a doubt, the rock cut monuments at Ajanta and Ellora are the prime attraction for people visiting Aurangabad.
Both these architectural marvels figure on the World Heritage list.
Ajanta lies 99 km northeast, about two hours away by road, while Ellora is much closer, just 30 km to the northwest.
Both places have dining and boarding facilities for overnight stops.
Badami, today a sleepy little town on a red sandstone ridge, was once the capital of the great Chalukyan Empire that controlled most of peninsular India between the 4th and 8th centuries AD.
The Chalukyas are credited with some of the best traditions of Dravidian architecture including an experimental blend of older South Indian temple architecture and the nagara style of north India, which passed into the Dravidian temple building convention.
There are ruins of temples and rock cut caves much of the exquisite sculpting has survived the two decades since Badami ceased to be the administrative centre of the kingdom Badami was the capital from 540 to 757 AD, after which the Chalukyans lost out to the emerging power, the Rashtrakutas.
Badami saw a succession of rulers of which the Chalukyas were only the most important.
There is architecture and sculpture here from periods ranging as far back as the 7th century AD Pallava rule to as recently as the 19th century Marathas.
The Station Road is the main road in Badami; the architectural complex lies to the east of it.
The oldest, Cave 1, has stunning carvings of Shiva in his Nataraja avatar, dancing the apocalyptic tandava.
There are also carvings of the god in the Ardhanarishvara form where he is depicted as half man- half woman, the woman half representing his wife Parvati.
Yet another carving is of Harihara, the right half of this figure depicts Shiva the Destroyer and the left, Vishnu the Preserver.
Caves 2 and 3 are dedicated entirely to Vishnu, whereas Cave 4 is has an image of the Jain tirthankara, Adinath.
Other sites of note are the 5th century Agastyatirtha Tank, the fort and the Bhutanath temples.
The local archaeological museum has some fine specimens of carvings from the area including a collection of LajjaGauri images.
The museum is open from 10 am to 5 pm every day except Friday.
There are buses to Badami from Bijapur, Bangalore, Hubli, Gadag and Ilkal.
The trains that arrive at the small Badami station are all II class passenger trains.
There are railway services from Gadag from where you can get a connection to the bigger cities of hosed and Hubli, and from Bijapur, which is on the Mumbai Secunderabad Chennai main line.
Most hotels are located on the arterial Station Road.
The town has everything from the very basic in tourist accommodation (Rs.100 single rooms) to the one luxury hotel (prices in the range of Rs 1500 2000).
Most hotels are in the middle budget category and these will charge upwards of Rs.200 for a double room with attached bath.
Getting around Local buses, taxis, auto rickshaws and horse drawn Tangas fulfill the visitors getting around needs.
One can rent bicycles from the many cycle stalls on Station Road.
Buses to nearby Pattadakal and Aihole are frequent.
The first is a mere half an hour by bus from Badami while the second takes a two hour journey.
Keep in mind that the last bus back from Aihole leaves around 430 pm and the last buses from Pattadakal are at about 6 pm You could alternatively hire a cab for the trip.
It is possible to visit both these historical sites on a one day outing if you leave Badami early enough in the morning.
City Getaways Two hours by road from Badami, Aihole used to be the regional capital of the Chalukyan kings between the 4th and 6th centuries AD. 
Anyone who is interested in temple architecture should head for Aihole.
From the earliest buildings that are characterized by simplicity of design to later intricate structures like the Meguti Temple, the evolution of the Dravidian style is apparent in the various architectural styles of the Aihole ruins.
The earlier styles are well represented in the Gandar, Ladkhan, Hucchapaya and Kontigudi temple complexes, while the Jain Meguti temple and the impressive 7th century Durga Temple are samples from a later date.
Accommodation is available at a local guesthouse but hardly anyone stays over at Aihole.
Pattadakal, half an hour from Badami, is a little village now but it was at one time the second most important city of the Chalukyas and the site of royal ceremonies like coronations.
The ruins at Pattadakal date from the 4th century to the 9th.
The majority of the work is from the 7th and 8th centuries AD though.
Pattadakal is also an important site for the study of the development of temple architecture in South.
Dont miss the ornate Virupaksha Temple, the Mallikarjuna Temple and the Papanath Temple.
If you’re in Pattadakal towards the end of January, there’s every chance you’ll catch the annual classical dance festival held here.
Once the private game reserve of the Mysore maharajas, this large shoals or forest (874 sq km) south of the river Kabini is now part of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve and one of WWFs (World Wide Fund for Nature) Project Tiger sites.
It neighbors the Mudumalai National Park in Tamil Nadu and Wynaad in Kerala.
All together this area makes for the largest protected forest in India.
Bandipur has a sizeable population of wild elephant, spotted deer and sambar, gaur and flying squirrel, four horned antelope, Nilgiri, langur and sloth bear.
The Royal Bengal tiger (75 in the Park) and leopard are even more elusive here than elsewhere because the moister region that they inhabit falls under the protected core area where casual visitors are not allowed.
Mostly dry deciduous with an abundance of teak on the periphery, the moister core area has large tracts of fragrant sandalwood and rosewood.
However, some summers this area too gets unbearably dry and during these times the animals migrate to neighboring wetter Mudumalai Park.
If you are really interested in the animals, you must avoid the weekends when hordes of visitors come down from nearby cities for the day.
Private vehicles are not allowed in so buses abound, rumbling and roaring their way around, drowning out any chance of seeing animals.
Better options for getting around in the park are the forest department jeeps and vans.
You can book a Machan (watch tower) near a watering hole for the best viewing of all.
The best season depends on what you are looking for; if its wildlife you seek then the hot months from March to May are when animals flock to the watering holes, and hopefully to the ones close to your Machan. 
For cool comfort the months of NovemberFebruary are great when the flora is resurging after the rains; the rainy months of June-September bring the elephants to the fore, bring the temperatures down and the metal led roads of Bandipur don’t get washed out either.
Tours of the Park and forest rest house accommodation should be reserved in advance at the Forest Office in Bangalore or Mysore.
Forest Rest Houses here are deluxe bungalows and also have the dormitory option.
There are a few luxury hotels around the park that arrange their own elephant safaris and jeep rides.
It is 80 km from Mysore, and a similar distance from Ooty, which takes 2 ½ hours by road.
 By Air Bangalore is very well connected with the rest of India.
There are daily flights from the four metros of Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai and Chennai, as well as from cities like Ahmedabad, Puri, Thiruvananthapuram, Mangalore and Goa.
There are direct international flights from Muscat, Singapore and Sharjah, and indirect connections via Mumbai from New York, London, Paris and the Middle East.
The Airport is 13 km from the city centre.
Prepaid taxi and auto rickshaws will do the distance quite readily.
There are also buses if you are traveling light and want to savor the local culture right off.