Built in the typical Moorish and Mughal stlyle of architecture , the Oberoi Amarvilas  is not just beautiful, it is barely 600m away from the Taj Mahal and offers the most stunning views of that monument.
You can see the Taj Mahal from everywhere in the hotel Oberoi Amarvilas.
Beautiful architecture, wood-panelled interiors, a large courtyard, huge trees, and water gurgling down columns-the Ananda Krishna Van offers you a very peaceful, quite stay in Madhuban.
The food in Anand Bhoj, the hotel’s in house restaurant, is excellent, and makes a stay here that much more unforgettable. 
Hotel Kanha Shyam, Allahabad, is one of the most luxurious hotels in the city and is known mainly for two things: its brilliant location near the Ganges and the delicious in house dining options.
Barely a few minutes away from the river, Hotel Kanha Shyam has a 24 hour coffee shop, a well stocked bar called Court View and a great Indian restaurant called Baradari, it is best choice in Allahabad.
Surat Bhawan Palace, Lakhimpur Khiri, not too far from the Dudhwa National Park is this heritage property, which was built in 1894 in the typical Indo-saracenic style.
Sprawled over 35 acres and littered with fountains and orchards, the Mahesh Vilas Palace, Shivgarh is reputed for its long verandah, which has 60 beautiful Carrara marble pillars.
Built in 1942, Mahesh Vilas Palace heritage property has luxurious rooms, and a billiards room for a game or two.
Fort Jagmanpur, Jalaun is four storied square Fort sits at the confluence of five fivers, is hemmed by a moat on three sides and is replete with more than 100 big and small halls and a sweies of Tehkhanas (under ground rooms).
The succulent Pethas, piece of white pumpkin dipped in sugar syrup, of Agra, quite simply, do.
Agra is also famous for its Gajak, a crumbly sweet made with sesame and jaggery.
The land of Lord Krishna, Mathura is not just frequented by the pious, there are those who make a pilgrimage here for the mouth-watering Pedas:
Milk sweets simmered in large works for hours and then rolled in dry fruits and flavored with cardamom.
Awadhi cuisine is replete with various varieties of Kebabs, and the Tunde ke kebabs are arguable the most delicious.
When in Lucknow, you must taste Tunde ke kebabs divine creations; the creator’s grandson, Usman Mian, still makes them in the Aminabad area if Lucknow.
The Kakori Kebab was created when the Nawab of Kakori was stung by a British officer’s remark about the coarse texture of the Seekh Kebabs.
Kakori kebabs are grilled on slow charcoal fires and proudly offerded in little eateries all over the village.
The Nargisi Kofta, which is actually hard boiled egg wrapped in mincemeat and deep fried and cut lengthwise and added to gravy.
Connoisseurs of Nargisi Kofta delectable dish even pick the eggs with care; they prefer them elongated rather than round, for true culinary perfection.
Safedas are not just any variety of guavas; they grow only in Allahbad, and are fidiculously expensive, but are entirely worth their price.
Visit Allhabad in December-January for the choicest picks of the fruit.
A mutton dish with saffron, you’ll find the Chandi and the Mahi variety of Kaliya, but the Kundan Kaliya is special.
The mutton pieces are actually wrapped in gold leaf and served on a bed of thick gravy.
Lucknow has the best Laddoos in India.
Motichoor Laddoos at Ram Ashraya or Ritz give the most delicious Belgian chocolates a run their money.
There is a Parval Ka Beeda, which may not sound terribly appetizing but taste divine.
Not forget the heavenly Malai Ka Paan in lucknow.
The very mention of fragrant mutton biryani from Lucknow, the spices dancing in your mouth, the meat falling off the bone….it is enough to drive anyone to poetry.
The rich is slightly fried before cooking in mutton stock, in the typical Dum Pukht style.
Zamin Doz Machhli is ancient of cooking fish involves stuffing a whole fish with spices, sealing it in an earthenware case, burying it in the ground and cooking it by lighting cow dung cakes above.
It takes nearly six to eight hours to reach perfection and in the old days, special earthen pots were made in which the fish fitted snugly.
You can’t go to Varanasi and not have the Paan here.
 Paan is the perfect end to any meal, and comes in many varieties-stuffed with Gulkhand, cardamom or grated coconut, among otheres.
Another great favourite in Varanasi is the Chaat in Chaat Gali, a street of vendors selling the spiciest, most lip smacking chaat in the state.
Whenever there is talk of Mughal cuisine, Zarda always finds a mention.
Zarda is a sweet rice preparation enriched with dried fruit and nuts.
Legend has it that Zarda was Nawan Wajid Ali Shah’s favourite during the season of spring; hence the yellow tinge of the rice.
Sheermal ‘milk bread’ is a kind of Roti that was first made in Lucknow by a cook called Muhammaden.
Sheermal rich, royal creation is a spongy bread made of four, milk, ghee and saffron, and traditionally cooked in the iron tandoor.
Rahim near Akbari Gate in Lucknow is the best in the city for all kinds of breads.
In Lucknow, try the popular Prakash Kulfi at the Aminabad Crossroads.
The best shops for Pedas are opposite the Shri Krishna Janambhoomi Temple in Mathura.
Moradabad, tiny town is now synonymous with brass artifacts that even find their way from here across the seas into Harrods and Selfridges.
Pick up lots of brassware for your home from shops throughout Moradabad, which is especially known for its coloured enamelling and intricate etchings.
If you have evern a passing interest in aromatherapy, drop in at Line Bazaar in Olandganj in Jaunpur for oils and perfumes of the best quality.
While in Jaunpur, also stop aat any of the several sweetmeat shops to feast on Imarti, a delicious Jalebi-like sweet.
So exquisite are the famous Benaradi saris that they are the first choice for many a bride’s trousseau.
A Benarasi silk sari or shawl is traditionally a rich, single coloured textile with patterns woven in gold or silver threads.
The Kimkhab and Tanchoi brocades are the finest, most opulent you’ll find in Varanasi.
The main shopping areas in Varanasi for these fabrics and saris are Chowk, Vishwanath Gali, Lahurabir, Godoulia, Dashwamedh Gali and Golghar.
Now Ferozabad has diversified into a whole range of glassware, but it is still the lovely bangles in glittering shops all over the town that draw the crowds.
Chikankari, today a style icon all over the world don kurtas, dresses and saris with the delicate chikan embroidery.
Lucknow’s Chowk area has lines of shops selling the most intricate of designs.
CIE, opposite the Taj Hotel in Varanasi, has a wonderful collection of silk, brocades and handicrafts.
You’ll find a staggering variety of leather goods in Kanpur.
The main shopping centers in Kanpur for leather are The Mall, Birhana Road, Gumti No. 5, Parade, Naveen Market, Meston Road and PPN Market.
Find the most luxurious carpets in Uttar Pradesh; the state is the largest carpet making region in the country. 
The main weaving centers are the 500 villages in Mirzapur, Badohi and Kamaharia.
Designs can vary from Sirdar with hand embossed borders in honey-beige, ivory and soft green all the way to 18th century designs with short clippings of the yarn around the contours to give it the look of a swculpture.
Agra is kno9wn for its handicrafts, especially marble and soft stone inlay work.
Pick up a miniature Taj Mahal for a bit of kitsch or buy some marble trinket boxes as gifts.
The most gorgeous examples of the shining Zardozi embroidery are found in Agra.
Farukkabad is full of shops selling lovely handprints, with traditional motifs like Buti and the Tree of Life.
Farukkabad is about 4 hours from Kanpur by train.
Uttarakhand is where India goes to get away from it all.
Ride through the Corbett and Rajaji National Parks for an awe-inspiring sight of mighty elephants, beautiful cheetal, the majestic tiger, and a stunning variety of migratory birds.
Head to mussoorie, Ranikhet and Almora, once the charming summer retreats of the Raj, which continue to cast a spell on thousands of visitors every year.
Prepare to be enchanted by the wondrous colours that carpet the ground on a trek to the Valley of flowers.
Visit Rishikesh, explore the ancient town of Haridwar and watch the Ganga rush along, full of pride.
The Aarti on Ganga’s banks, light dancing on the water, people calling out to the heavens, is a sight unlike any other.
A land opposite, from the peaceful stetches of silences and the beauty of the Himalayas to the noise of pious crowds offering up prayer.
Lake Resort, enchanting location-right at the edge of a placid lake Naukuchiatal, surrounding by the soothing green of oak forests.
Ramgarh Bungalows, located in an area famous for its orchards, Ramgarh Bunglows carry more than a whiff of Raj nostalgia.
Built in the 1800s for british officers, the Old Bungalow and the Writer’s Bungalow are part of the Neemrana Group.
If you wish to begin your holiday in Kumaon on a memorable note, The Cottage is the perfect place for you.
In Almora, located in one of the most picturesque spots in the area, Kalmatia Sangam Himalayan Resort is among the classiest in the state.
Luxury in the Corbett Park is what the stylishly designed Claridges Hideway offers you.
Apart from the jeep and elephant safaris into Corbett Park, you have a host of activities to choose from.
In Haridwar, attractively restored Haveli Har Ganga on the banks of the Ganga combines old world charm with modern luxury.
Ananda is a world class spa whose serene surroundings act as part of the therapeutic process.
If you fancy a laid back holiday in a hundred year old colonial bunglows set in 39 acres of greenery, Sitla Estate Mukteshwar  is the place you.
In Munsiyari, situated next to a waterfall, Wayfarer Mountain Resort offers a fabulous view of Panchachuli. 
In Wayfarer Mountain Resort’s five log cabins and five Swiss tents provide all the urban comforts you’re used to.
Another property of the Maharaja of Tehri turned into a delightful resort by the Neemrana Group, The Glasshouse lies inan orchard of litchis and mangoes and has its own beach for a dip in the Ganga or for sunbathing.
One of the oldest buildings in Mussoorie, built in 1836, this former palace of the Raja Kasmanda has been converted into an elegant resort.
Tucked within the Binsar wildlife sanctuary, Binsar retreat resort, at an altitude of 7,500 feet, offers accommodation in five rooms and five luxury tents.
Kanatal is a lake that is believed to have dried up mysteriously.
An old favourite with Mussoorie buffs, the Tavern has always been known for its scrumptious menu and fabulous live music.
Dolma’s is a Tibetan eatery, the fluffy pancakes, delicious spring rolls and lemon ginger tea are better than the momos and perfect for cold evenings (mornings or afternoons).
The originally Sakley’s Swiss confectionery was famous for its delectable chocolates, cakes and pastries.
Musoorie is so famous for, Amitash, also known as the Rice Bowl, is just the place for you.
Don’t miss a chance to stop at Garampani to snack on alu gutak, a spicy dry potato preparation and turmeric yellow cucumber raita, with ground mustard for added tang.
Try the Kaleji fry and Dal at any of these, especially on cold winter evenings.
On the way to Mussoorie, stop at the now defunct toll gate, Kolhu Khet, for the most amazing pakoras and tea.
A hugely heartening development programme, ‘Heaven by Panchachuli’ is a cooperative of village woman in search of economic independence.
Almost all the gift shops in Nainital have candles.
If you’re looking for something really special, Consol’s is just the place for you.
One of the best gifts you can carry back from your holiday is Ellora’s sinfully delicious pistachio and almond biscuits.
Ellora’s biscuits are what tea was made for.