The country is home to the world's highest waterfall, Angel Falls (about 16 times higher than Niagara Falls), and the world's longest and highest cable car, whisking tourists from the university town of Mérida to the 4765m- (15,629ft-) high Pico Espejo.
The capital, Caracas, boasts fine historical monuments, an excellent collection of museums and art galleries, and contrasting examples of old and new architecture.
Visitors to this country have the choice of a relaxing resort experience, a cultural city break or a wealth of adventurous activities.
Whether they wish to experience one, or all of the above, Venezuela has more than enough to offer on all counts. 
Almost 500 years on, the impact of Spanish conquistadores can be seen in the tall, ornate churches that crown the hillsides and plazas of Mexico's cities and whitewashed walls of haciendas.
But traces of earlier inhabitants remain in the remarkable temples and pyramids at Palenque and Teotihuacán, and in the traditions of dozens of indigenous cultures.
Accompanying it all are the subtle spices of Mexico's famous tortillas, tamales and enchiladas, washed down with bold red wines and heady tequila and mescal.
Mexico's earliest known civilization was the Holmic in the second century BC, a Mayan culture advanced in religion, architecture and mathematics, who reached their height between AD 600-900.
The Toltecs were the predominant civilization of this time.
Known for their fine architecture, elegant speech and intellectual pursuits, they were the ancestors of the famous Aztecs.
In 1519, a Spaniard named Hernan Cortés arrived from Cuba with a 550-strong crew.
The Aztec Empire controlled vast territories from the Yucatán peninsula to the Pacific, with over 370 individual nations under their authority.
Ruling from their capital city, Tenochtitlan, the Aztecs demanded heavy tribute from their subjects, which caused some to side with Cortés.
The other factor on Cortés' side was the lucky coincidence that 1519 was the exact year when legend had it that the Aztec god, Quetzalcoatl, would return from the east and so Cortés was mistaken for a god.
After two years of fighting, the Aztecs were defeated.
Mexico later achieved independence after the wars of 1810-21.
In Mexico City is the Plaza de las Tres Culturas, which celebrates the three major cultures that have shaped Mexico: there are Aztec ruins, the 17th-century colonial church of San Diego and several late 20th-century buildings.
Mexico's capital city is one of speeding VW taxis and bustling marketplaces, countered by colorful Aztec dancers and panaderías with freshly baked pastries.
Mexico City has a peculiar charm, possessing Mexico in microcosm: pollution and poverty intermingled with streets named after philosophers.
Mexico City itself provides a contrast with the country's arresting topography: its Sierra Madre mountains, volcanoes, national parks and beaches.
History comes to life in Mexico: the scars of recent history are still apparent.
In 1847, Mexico was forced to cede half of its territory to the USA.
In 1861, Benito Juárez was elected President and announced a two-year moratorium on the payment of foreign debts, causing a series of civil wars and conflicts with European and US Governments for the next 30 years.
Later came Porfirio D'az's dictatorship of 1876-1910, revolutions and coups, and the one-party state of the PRI until the mid-1970s.
Mexico's largely oil-based economy brought Mexico to the verge of bankruptcy in the 1970s/80s due to corruption and mismanagement, a collapse of oil prices, and political crisis.
Some areas of Mexico are, indeed, still blighted by crime and destitution.
But, for the most part, Mexico remains a fascinating amalgam of antiquity and forward-looking vigor.
This section includes basic facts on a number of the US External Territories: Baker & Howland Islands, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Palmyra and Wake Island.
For more information on these islands, contact a US Embassy; see USA section.
The following countries all have their own sections in the World Travel Guide.
American Samoa, Guam, US Virgin Islands.
For Palau and the Northern Mariana Islands, see the Pacific Islands of Micronesia section.
Mickey Mouse, Miami Vice, Sleepless in Seattle… thanks to cinema and TV we all have impressions of the United States of America.
Yet nothing can prepare you for your first glimpse of Manhattan's unforgettable skyline, your first ride in a yellow cab, the ubiquitous hamburger joints, the vast expanses of prairie, the sweet strains of New Orleans jazz or the neon-lit excesses of Las Vegas.
The USA is a huge country to explore, with 50 states to choose from, flanked by two oceans and covering an incredibly varied terrain.
For five centuries, since the 'New World' discoveries of Christopher Columbus.
There are opportunities for anglers in Bhalukpung in Assam, the river Jia Bhoroli, Kapili and Manas are the best places for Golden Mahseer angling since the days of the British.
The Jia Bhoroli of Assam has a long and glorious history of Mahseer angling The state of Himachal Pradesh with its many snowfed rivers are an angler's haven.
The upper reaches of the river Beas in the Kullu valley are also great for this sport.
The picturesque Kangra valley has several spots that offer mahaseer river carp.
In Kashmir, trout fishing is a lucrative business and the ideal season is from April to October.
The British introduced the brown and rainbow trout to the streams of Kashmir, where they have thrived.
Only artificial flies are allowed and each license entitles the angler to keep six fish a day, none being shorter than 7. 5 cm The common rivers for fishing here are Sindh & Wangat.
For those who love sailing, yachting and windsurfing, there are facilities in Goa as well as at Kovalam beach in Kerala.
Mumbai, too, has several opportunities for sailing and other water sports.
Camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between India and China, when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels.
They provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional Indian life in the desert, with all the hardships, the beauty and the desolation.
The accommodation on the way consists of primitive thatched mud huts, and the way of life though hospitable is entirely ethnic.
Camel safaris generally cover the area around Jaisalmer, Bikaner or Jodhpur, popularly known as the desert circuit.
The duration can vary between one day and two weeks.
Big towns are not usually on the route though there is no definite route that you have to adopt.
Route navigation in the desert is an acquired art, and caravans must be manned by riders who not only know how to study the stars, but also recognize the shifting sands of the terrain.
A camel safari is exciting, but is not exactly a relaxing vacation.
Unless you are accustomed to horse riding, a daylong camel ride will be tiring.
Even if you are accustomed to horse riding, since the gait of the camel is quite different, it may take some time to get used to it.
Keeping in your seat as the camel raises or lowers itself to the ground, can appear at first to be a losing battle.
However, whether tiring or relaxing, a camel safari is bound to be a unique experience.
Traverse the lonely stretches of the Thar Desert, like the travelers of old.
In fact, the most magical way to explore the sands of Rajasthan, especially the unending sand dunes of Jaisalmer and Bikaner, is on camel back.
Camp under the stars, listen to the haunting strains of folk music echoing across the sand dunes, stay at any of the many heritage resorts run by erstwhile royalty, marvel at the remote forts and palaces, or enjoy the gentle hospitality of villagers at an oasis.
India's camel safaris take you back in time to a more leisurely age, and make for a memorable experience.
One of the most popular deserts in India, the Thar region was once ruled by the Rapjuts.
These strong and powerful rulers built magnificent fortress palaces, of which the ruins are still visited.
The Thar is best experienced by camel safaris.
These leave from Khuri village.
All travelers and tourists are required to make this journey along with an experienced guide.
A historic building now turned hotel A modern day hotel.
Also has a swimming pool.
Offering camel safaris, desert safaris staying at the camp Rawala Canoi, and other local tours.
Offering camel, jeep, and horse safaris, accommodation in tents.
Also desert safaris staying at camp in Pushkar.
Camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to Himachal and sharing the warmth of its people.
You can carry your own gear along or opt for any one of the several camps that are pitched in various parts of the State.
These camps offer accommodation, catering and variety of activities like hiking, fishing, nature tours and rafting.
Most of these offer quality facilities and services.
Himachal has camps at Sarchu in Lahaul besides built accomodation, and tents are available at Sangla and Kalpa in Kinnaur and Kaza in Spiti part of Lahaul & Spiti district.
The Youth Hostel association of India runs camps at Dalhousie (Chamba) and at KulluManali.
Camps run by the private sector are at Barog in Solan district,  Baspa (Sangla) valley and Kalpa in Kinnaur, at Tabo in Spiti, at Al Hilal  (Taragarh) and Dharamsala in Kangra, at Shoja near Kullu and Mashobra and  Baldian near Shimla Adventure camps are likely to be available soon in the  Pabbar valley in the Jubbal Hatkoti Rohru area in Shimla district.
Boparais organization is running a camping site at Barog in district Solan.
Boparais organization is situated on Chandigarh Shimla highway.
Since most of the peaks of the Garhwal Himalayas are difficult to scale in winter, a climb to a mini peak, Chandrashila, in Chamoli district of Uttar Pradesh, is arranged for trek programs.
This includes scaling, skiing, and trekking, through a landscape teeming with exotic flora and fauna, lakes and meadows, full of fresh snow.
The grassy slopes covered with snow, make it an ideal ski course Drive 185 kms to Guptakashi (1319 m) from Rishikesh.
Starting at Rishikesh, this 10 day long trek, passes through Pipalkoti, Kalpeshwar, Bansi Narain, Godiyala, Rudranath, and Sagar, and ends at Gopeshwar.
Hang gliding, at its most primitive level, fulfils humankind's desire to emulate the birds. Though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports, hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as Pune, Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Mumbai, Devlali, Bangalore and Kalaheti.
According to experts, while India has good thermal soaring effects during the summer months, and offers hill soaring almost round the year, the soaring in the winter months although too static is also good for hang gliding.
Several sites in India have been identified by expert hang gliders with those in the lower reaches of the Himalayas rated as/among the best in the world.
Situated at an elevation of 3566 m, the valley of HarkiDoon, is surrounded by glittering peaks and dense forests.
The lush forest cover is abundant in wildlife, and is a veritable paradise for birdwatchers and nature lovers.
The trek starts at Netwar, passes through Osla, and ends at HarkiDoon.
The trek from Netwar to Osla, is through dense forests of chestnuts, walnuts, willows and chinars.
The trek from Osla to HarkiDoon, is through terraced mountain fields, sylvan meadowsand conifer forests.
The ideal time to trek is during the rainy season, when the entire valley is abloom with vibrant flowers.
During the rainy season the starting point of the trek, is Purola on the Purola Netwar motor road.
A thrill minute adventure sport where split-second decisions can literally make or mar, heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent.
Though expensive and exclusive, heliskiing ultimate adventure sport is fast gaining popularity.
Then of course, there is a range of the conventional sporting activities, which can be viewed at various stadiums.
One of these is an addiction called cricket and the best place to watch this game is in an open enclosure, surrounded by roughly 50,000 frenzied fans! No wonder, it's called the 'religion' of the subcontinent.
Marwari the desert horse of Rajasthan.
Young horses are bought and reared in the hills.