This building has been used by the legal profession since the 14th century.
It includes a law school, whose students included the British writer and statesman Francis Bacon (1561-1626).
 A little more recently Charles Dickens worked here as a clerk in the late 1820's.
 The building is not normally open to the public, which makes it the least interesting of the Inns of Court.
However, there is a garden which all and sundry may enjoy for part of the day.
 The Guildhall is the City of London's civic headquarters.
The present building was built, for the most part, after the Great Fire of London in 
More recently the remains of a Roman amphitheatre were discovered here during redevelopment work in 1987.
 New Lord Mayors of London are sworn in inside the Great Hall and it is also the venue for sumptuous banquets given by the Corporation of the City of London for visiting heads of state.
In Charles Dickens' Pickwick Papers the Guildhall is the setting for the court case of Bardell vs Pickwick.
 The Guildhall Clock Museum next door has over 700 clocks and watches on show.
 Building work on a new Guidhall Art Gallery has now been completed.
Close to Hampstead Heath stands High gate Hill and on top of the hill, the pleasant village of High gate.
The village has a number of interesting antique shops and cafes.
The only down side is the rather busy main road that cuts through the middle.
Still Water low Park on the hill is very peaceful and for even more peace there is always historic High gate Cemetery.
 High gate Cemetery's most famous resident must surely be Karl Marx (1818-1883) the Communist revolutionary.
German born Marx made London his permanent home in 1849 after he was expelled from Prussia and France because of his radical views.
There are numerous reports of Marx going on pub-crawls down Oxford Street.
 There are many other notable residents in the cemetery including George Elliot, the British novelist and Michael Faraday.
 The Irish novelist Bram Stoker (1847-1912) used to enjoy walking in the peace of High gate cemetery.
It has been said that while sitting on a broken tomb to eat his lunch, he saw a shaft of sunlight shine through a crack in the tomb lid and this led him to imagine what would happen if the sunlight awoke the occupant below.
Swain's Lane splits the cemetery into two sides.
Marx is buried in the Eastern side.
Although this is relatively newer than the western cemetery it does contain many interesting tombs.
The older west side was opened in 1839 and now is only open for guided tours.
The west side is being left to age gracefully and contains an enormous amount of plant life and animals, including foxes.
 It is well worth taking a tour to see the Egyptian Avenue, which is a striking street cut into the side of the sloping ground, full of vaults, complete with front doors.
 The tour guides are volunteers who belong to the 'Friends of High gate Cemetery' and their enthusiasm for the cemetery is contagious.
Horse Guards barracks and the parade ground behind them were built in the 1750's.
At that time this was the only entrance to Buckingham Palace and St James's Palace.
It is still considered to be the official entrance to Buckingham Palace, hence the presence of the Queen's Life Guards.
 Two mounted Life Guards from the Household Cavalry keep mounted sentry duty during the day.
Through the night just one dismounted sentry stands guard.
The guardsmen are not allowed to speak or move but make a great photo opportunity!  A Changing the Guard ceremony takes place daily with members of the Household Cavalry.
The parade ground is also the venue for the annual Trooping the colors and Beating Retreat ceremonies.
Home of the British Government, the building is actually called the Palace of Westminster, but is more commonly known as the Houses of Parliament, due to the two parts of government that live here. 
 The Commons introduces new legislation but the Lords acts as a kind of quality control department and debates the issues again, before they are made law.
The British Sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country.
This includes the ceremony of the state opening of Parliament.
 The oldest part of the Palace of Westminster is Westminster Hall, dating back to the year 1097.
When Daniel Defoe visited Westminster Hall during his tour of 1724, he said it resembled a barn. 
A fire in 1834 destroyed all but Westminster Hall and the Jewel Tower across the road, so the rest of the present building is surprisingly new, having been built in the period 1840-1860 to a mock-Gothic design.
Strangely, the hall tends to be ignored, except for on state occasions.
Visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks.
 A century ago in Dickens' day, the hall was a more focal point.
When Parliament is sitting a light is turned on above the Clock Tower that houses Big Ben, and a flag is flown from Victoria Tower (the tall tower at the opposite end from Big Ben's Clock Tower).
On the corner near Parliament Square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a Member of Parliament wants a taxicab. 
Visitors are welcome in both the Lords' and Commons' public galleries when the houses are sitting.
The queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue.
 Arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the Palace.
 The original plans for the Houses of Parliament can be seen at Sir John Sloane's Museum.
At the road junction next to the Houses of Parliament is Parliament Square.
This small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic.
There are now plans to pedestrianism the area around the square and also Whitehall and Trafalgar Square, but at the moment the traffic deters many people from reaching the square.
Those who do will find statues honoring a number of past British Prime Ministers.
There is also one of Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865), the 16th President of the USA. 
Opposite 'The House' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians.
This is known variously as 'Abingdon Green', 'College Green' and 'St Stephen's Green'.
The official line though, from the Head of Public Information at the Palace of Westminster, is that it's just called 'The Green'.
 Similarly, the Clock Tower that houses Big Ben, the giant 13.5ton bell that strikes the hour, is simply called 'The Clock Tower'!  The Public Galleries are open when the houses are sitting.
The House of Lords is in recess from 28th July 2000, until 27th September 2000.
Tours of the rest of the building can be arranged through local MPs and embassies.
Edward III had the Jewel Tower built c.1365 to house his personal treasures with a moat dug around it for extra protection.
 It is virtually unaltered today and is one of only two complete buildings remaining from the medieval Palace of Westminster.
Administrated by English Heritage the Jewel Tower now houses the exhibition Parliament Past and Present.
 If you are thinking of visiting the Jewel Tower why not purchase a London Pass which will admit you to this and many other London attractions for a single payment; it also includes travel by public transport within the London area on buses tubes and trains zones 1 - 6.
 In addition, you can eat and relax in the Orangery built for Queen Anne.
The London Pass offers a free pot of tea or coffee with any cake or scone purchased.
 If you are thinking of visiting Kensington Palace & the Orangery, why not purchase a London Pass which will admit you to this and many other London attractions for a single payment; it also includes travel by public transport within the London area on buses, tubes and trains, zones 1 - 6.
Housed inside a majestic Palladian villa, remodeled by Robert Adam, is an internationally recognized collection of paintings including the 'Guitar Player' by Vermeer and Rembrandt's 'Self Portrait’?
 The house and the fabulous landscaped grounds are free to visit.
 Relax in the award winning Brew House Cafn and take time to enjoy magnificent views over London's skyline.
 If you are thinking of visiting Kenwood House, why not purchase a London Pass which will admit you to this and many other London attractions for a single payment; it also includes travel by public transport within the Lambeth Bridge runs from Lambeth to Westminster.
The first Lambeth Bridge was built in 1862.
 The present Lambeth Bridge was constructed over three years between 1929 and 1932, from concrete and steel.
Lambeth Bridge was opened by King George V and Queen Mary.
 The Lambeth Walk was actually a local market but the name later became famous as the popular song and dance routine from the musical 'Me and My Girl'.
 On the roundabout at the south end of the bridge is the Museum of Garden History, situated in the old 14th century church of St Mary-at-Lambeth.
This has been the main home of the head of the Church of England, the Archbishop of Canterbury, since 1997.
If you're wondering, yes, Canterbury is a long way to commute to work each day!  As this is a private residence, it is not open to the public except by special arrangement.
Archbishop's Park next to the palace is used as a public space although it is actually part of the palace grounds.
Lincoln's Inn is one of London's four Inns of Court.
These are legal societies with the power to call people to the bar.
Though very old (the gateway leading from Chancery Lane dates back to the 1500's), Lincoln's Inn is still very much in use today by the legal profession.
Though the main buildings are not open to the public, the Chapel built by Indigo Jones is.
 Lincoln's Inn Fields is a tranquil free filled square to the west of Lincoln's Inn.
Look out for the water fountain near the west gate of the square.
This fountain dates back to 1861 and has the inscription "The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life."  See also the other Inns of Court Middle and Inner Temple and Gray's Inn.
Lime Street, London, built in 1986 this most futuristic building is the headquarters for Lloyd's Insurance.
Richard Rogers, the architect, made the bold decision not to cover up the internal workings of the building such as lifts and water pipes.
Instead he made them a feature of the building by putting them on the outside.
This lead to it being described as an inside out building.
It is hard to imagine that Lloyd's began life as a group of businessmen meeting in Edward Lloyd's coffee shop back in 1688.
 Inside, some traditions are observed, such as the ringing of the Lutine Bell, which was taken from a French ship that sank in 1799.
The bell is rung when a major insurance claim is made!  Surprisingly the American-born poet T S Elliot worked at Lloyds as a clerk for 7 years.
London Bridge connects the City with Southward.
This is the fourth London Bridge to span the river at this point.
The first one, made of wood, was built by the Romans, following their invasion in 43AD.
The early 13th century saw the first stone bridge, which for many centuries was the only means of crossing the Thames in London.