Malinithan and Bhismaknagar these are the two important archaeological sites in the Arunachal Pradesh. 
Parashuram Kund is a prominent pilgrimage site.
Namdapha Wildlife Sanctuary is situated in the Changlang district and is home to the rare Hoolock gibbon.
The nearest airport is Lilabari in Assam, 57 km from Naharlagun and 67 km from Itanagar.
Indian Airlines has a daily flight from Calcutta, Tezpur and Jorhat; on Monday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday from Guwahati; one daily from Dibrugarh; and a flight on Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday from Tezpur.
The nearest convenient railhead is North Lakshimpur in Assam, 50 km from Naharlagun and 60 km from Itanagar. 
Itanagar is connected by road to the other state capitals in the North-east.
Assam is the gateway to the North-East and is dominated by the mighty river Brahmaputra that has its origin in Tibet.
Indeed, a large part of the state is located in the narrow valley that the river has created over the ages.
The state's population includes a startling mix of Dravidians and Aryans and Tibeto-Burmans.
Assam is perhaps best known for two things: tea and the one-horned Rhinoceros, which is found in large numbers at Kaziranga National Park.
Assam is also known for its scenic beauty, one can view gushing rivers on one side, snow caped mountains on the other and lush forests in between.
Assam was dominated by Ahom rulers for more than 600 years, they ruled Assam virtually uninterrupted for 6 Centuries until their kingdom fell to the British, in 1826.
Straddling banks of the Brahmaputra, Guwahati - said to be the legendary Pragjyotishpur or City of Eastern Light - is a bustling, busy and crowded city.
Sualkuchi place is famous for producing golden silken thread.
Hajo is the sight of Pua-Mecca mosque, set up by an Iraqi Prince who turned preacher and traveled all the way to Assam in the 12th century.
Also one can see the Hayagriba Madhava Temple reached by a long stone stairway.
Madan Kamdev is an archaeological site where erotic sculptures and other stone carvings abound.
Kaziranga National Park is best known for the one-horned Rhinoceros. One can reach Kaziranga by passing through Jagiroad, Ngaon and Bordoa.
Sibsagar city's attractions include temples of Shivdol, Vishnudol and devidol, Rang Ghar Talatol Ghar, Joysagar-the biggest man-made lake and Ahom Museum.
Dibrugarh is one of the major tea producing centers of the subcontinent.
Near Tezpur lie the ruins of stone temples 'Da Parbatia' about 5 kms. west.
Other architectural remains include that of Agnigarh, Bamuni Hills, Bhairavi and Mahabhairab temples and the twin tanks of Bar Pukhuri and Padum Pukhuri.
The Eco Camp is a unique experiment by the Assam Anglers' Association and the state's Forest Department.
Indian Airlines connect Guwahati with Calcutta, Delhi, Bagdogra, Imphal, Agartala, Dibrugarh.
Guwahati is connected by good motor able roads with Shillong , Kaziranga National Park , Manas Wildlife Sanctuary , Dimapur , Itanagar , Imphal , Agartala , Aizwal , Gangtok , Darjeeling , Calcutta , and Kohima .
Guwahati is connected by regular bus service with Shillong, Silchar, Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Tezpur, Siliguri, Sibsagar, Dimapur, Kohima, Imphal, Aizwal, Itanagar, Barpetta Road.
The name, Kalimpong, has three different origins, one, it means the place where the local tribesmen gathered to organize field sports, second, it takes it’s name from the Bhutanese king’s minister’s stronghold and thirdly, it is named after Kaulim, a fibrous plant found in abundance in this region.
Set in beautiful wooded mountains Kalimpong is a remote hill station about 80 kms from Darjeeling is known for its beautiful orchids.
The Tharpa Choling monastery has a library of Tibetan manuscripts and thankas which can be visited.
Kalimpong also offers pleasant hikes and walks through rice fields and tea fields around the town.
Kalimpong's attractions include three Buddhist monasteries, spectacular churches, an excellent private library for the study of Tibetan and Himalayan language and culture, a sericulture centre and a fine view of the surrounding countryside.
Kalimpong is an important orchid-growing area and flowers are exported from here to various countries.
The Sri Ganesh Moni Pradhan Nursery and the Udai Mani Pradhan Nursery are among the most important in the area.
Kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the Durpin Dara Monastery.
The monastery was built in the mid-1970 at Durpin Dara and consecrated by the Dalai Lama.
The view from Durpin Dara Monastery is breath-taking. 
Markets in Kalimpong, which are open on Wednesdays and Saturdays, are good places for the souvenir hunter.
Kalimpong offers a wide range of traditional handicrafts to the traveler.
Woodcarvings, embroidered items, bags and purses with tapestry work, copperware, scrolls, Tibetan jewelry and artifacts can be picked up from the shops and markets across the town.
The Tharpa Choeling Gompa, which belongs to the Yellow Hat (Gelukpa) sect of Tibetan Buddhism, is a 40 minute walk from town.
Lower down the hill, the Tongsa Gompa, or Bhutanese Monastery, is the oldest monastery in the area and dates back to 1692.
Zong Dog Palri Fo-Brang Gompa, was built in the mid-70s at Durpin Dara Hill and was consecrated by the Dalai Lama.
The gompa is worth a visit for its impressive wall paintings in the prayer room, and a rare three-dimensional mandala upstairs.
The mountain views are amazing from Durpin Dara Hill.
Kalimpong produces 80% of India’s gladioli and is a significant orchid-growing area and it comes as no surprise that flowers are exported from here to many cities in northern India.
Nevertheless "Mangal Dham" is a memorial built in this divine memory in 1993.
Sprawling over an area of two acres; "Mangal Dham" is considered to be one of the most splendid temples in India.
Kalimpong has a well laid-out golf course near the Durpin Dara Monastery.
The monastery was built in the mid-1970s at Durpin Dara and consecrated by the Dalai Lama.
Located on Rinkingpong Rd, Nature Interpretation Centre consists of a number of well-organized dioramas, which depict the effects of human activity on the environment.
The centre is open to visitors from Friday to Wednesday from 10 am to 4 PM and admission is free.
Located 16 km from Kalimpong, Teesta Bazaar is an important place for white water rafting.
The small village of Lava, located at 2,353 m above sea level and about 30 km east of Kalimpong, is an important place to visit.
Located at 1555 m above sea level is beyond Lava and one can have magnificent view of the summit of Kanchenjunga from the village of Kaffer.
Gangtok road is an important attraction near Kalimpong.
One has to take a bus for Siliguri from Kalimpong in order to visit this ropeway route.
Kalimpong is well connected to the other major East Indian Himalayan destinations of Gangtok and Darjeeling, both of which are less than 3 hours away.
Bagdogra (80 kms away) is served by regular Indian Airlines and Jet Airways flights from Kolkata and Delhi.
New Jalpaiguri (77 kms away) is the nearest mainline rail station for Kalimpong.
Bodhgaya is an excellent place to study Buddhism, and Rajgir, Nalanda and Sasaram are interesting places which are not on the tourist trail.
Capital city of Bihar, it is an important business centre of eastern India.
More significantly, Patna is a gateway to the Budhist and Jain pilgrim centers of Vaishali, Rajgir, Nalanda, Bodhgaya and Pawapuri.
Some of the interesting tourist places in Patna itself would be Golghar, Harmandirji, Jalan Museum, Martyrs' Memorial, Kumrahar, Pathar Ki Masjid, Patna Museum, Khuda Baksh Oriental Library and Agam Kuan.
Nalanda is located 90 kms from Patna lies the ruins of one of the most famous centers of learning in the ancient world, Nalanda University, built in the 5th century BC.
Situated amidst lush green hills Rajgir lays 102 kms. from Patna and is sacred to the memory of the founder of both Buddhism and Jainism.
Vaishali has a past that pre-dates recorded history, it is held that town derives its name from king Vishal, whose heroic deeds are narrated in the Hindu epic Ramayana.
This city is also popular because of the belief that the Jain Tirthankar, Lord Mahavira was born here.
Serene and quiet this tiny little village, holiest among holy places is Bodhgaya, where the quest of prince Siddharth was fulfilled after years of seeking the truth and saga of Buddha began.
Lying in sylvan solitude this sacred place is situated on the bank of river Niranjana(Modern Falgu).
Bodhgaya is 13 kms. from Gaya, this  is a very sacred pilgrim centre for Hindus.
Blissfully remote and uniquely beautiful, the tranquil environment of Chotanagpur offers an ideal escape from the restrictions of civilization.
The landscape combines the raucous vivacity, the exquisite scenery the creaking ox carts and innocent tribal looks that will greet one everywhere.
Hazaribagh means a thousands gardens and it is a famous health hill resort situated on a height of 2,019ft. above sea level.
Hazaribagh has an excellent climate with beautiful sceneries all around it in the midst of dense forest and it is rich in flora and fauna.
Other places to visit would be Canary Hill, Hazaribagh Lake, Wild Life Sanctuary, Tilaiya Dam, Rajrappa, Konar Dam.
Situated picturesquely in the heart of Chotanagpur at an altitude of 2,140 ft. above sea level Ranchi is the nucleus of the region.
Ranchi is well known for its scenic attractions, water falls, barren rocks and hillocks.
Some of the scenic attractions in and around this town would be Ranchi Hill and Ranchi Lake, Tagore Hill, Kankedam and Jagannath Temple, Hundru Falls, Jonha Falls, Sita and Dassam Falls, Hinri Falls, Breeding Centre and Mc Cluskieganje.
Netarhat is situated 156 kms. from Ranchi and is basically a hill station of Bihar.
Dense forests, serpentine roads, cool bracing breeze, moonlit nights must have persuaded the English to call this place which possibly sums up nature and heart of Netarhat.
Nearby places to visit would be Magnolia Point, Upper Ghagri Water Falls, Lower Ghagri Water Falls, Koel view Point, Lodh Falls, Sadni Falls, Betla National Park, Dhanbad, Topchanchi Lake,Jharia, Sindri, Maithon Dam, Panchet Dam, Bokaro, Jamshedpur, Dolwa Hill Top.
Several trains leave Delhi daily for 15-hour journey to Patna and from Calcutta, the trip by rail takes around 12 hours. 
Patna has extensive road connections with Bodhgaya (125 km), Calcutta (608 km), Nalanda (90 km), Pawapuri (90 km), Rajgir (102 km), and many other places of tourist interest within Bihar and the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh.
Along the banks of River Ganga is Patna, (originally known as Pataliputra), the capital of Bihar.
It was named "PATNA" in the 16th century under the great Afghan king, Sher Shah Suri.
It is said that Ashoka made this Agam Kuna and it is presumed that the well has endless source of water.
Gol Ghar is 1 km away from Patna city and it is a huge beehive shaped structure built in 1786 by Captain John Garstin, following the famine of 1770.
Tourists get the bird’s eye view of the whole city from the top of the dome.
Khuda Baksh Library known as the “world of manuscripts” in India, this is a treasure house of medieval manuscripts and is famous for its rare Arabic and Persian manuscripts, rich paintings and numerous volumes of rare books. 
6 kms. from Patna is Kumharar, where tourists can find remains of the ancient city of Pataliputra.
An 80-pillared hall belonging to the Mauryan dynasty has also been found on excavations and the place is surrounded by greenery and gives a very scenic look.
The Patna museum is located in Dedarganj and is the oldest museum in Bihar, established in 1917.
Patna museum houses about 57,000 items of archeological importance and also has a collection of 22,000 old coins.
Built in 1621 by Parvezshah, son of emperor Jahangir, this Stone Mosque is also known as Sanji Masjid and the structure is a marvel of architecture. 
Built of white marble this Takth Harmandir is actually a Sikh shrine, commissioned by Maharaja Ranjit Singh to commemorate the birth of the last Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind.
The Patna Planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in Asia and attracts a large number of domestic as well as foreign tourists.
Patna Planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy and also holds exhibitions.
The Sanjay Gandhi Botanical garden is situated on the famous Baily road and has numerous birds and animals.
The wooden house built on a tree is the main attraction in Sanjay Gandhi Botanical garden.