The foreign currency exchange counters of different banks are also opened at different places in the city. 
Foreign currencies must be exchanged only through the banks or authorized foreign exchange.
The rate of exchange of the foreign currencies are determined by the Nepal Rastra Bank and are announced in the press daily also the Bank receipts are required for re-exchanging of currency note that Nepal currency is not applicable in India.
 In Nepal Banks are open between 10:00 A.M. to 2:30 P M. from Sunday to Thursday and between 10:00 A.M. to 2:30 P M. on Fridays while they are closed on Saturdays and other holidays.
The duty on articles brought by the visitor varies according to the volume and value of the goods.
A tourist may brlng in dutiable goods, such as tobacco and liquors, within the prescribed quantity free of duty. Carrying narcotic, arms, ammunition are strictly prohibited.
Any foreigner intending to trek in any part of the kingdom of Nepal shall have to obtain a trekking permit from the Department of Immigration, Tridevi Marg and permits are issued for trekking in any part of the country except in areas restricted for the foreigners by government regulation.
Nepal time is 5 hours 45 minutes ahead of GMT and 15 minutes ahead of Indian Standard Time.
His Majesty's the Government of Nepal, Department of Tourism runs information centres at its office and at the following places: Tourist Information Centre, Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Tourist Information Centre, Basantapur, Kathmandu, Tourist Office, Airport, Pokhara, Tourist Information Centre; Birgunj, Tourist Informafion Centre, Bhairahawa, Tourist Information Centre, Kakarbhitta, Tourist Information Centre, Janakpur,
There is a special provision of Tourist Police Unit to deal with the problems of tourists for assistance One can contact the Department of the Tourism, Bhrikutimandap for the services of tourist police
Passengers arriving at Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) without any dutiable goods can proceed through the Green Channel for quick clearance without a baggage check.
If you are carrying dutiable articles, you have to pass through the Red Channel for detailed customs clearance.
Apart from used personal belongings, visitors are allowed to bring to Nepal free of duty cigarettes (200) or cigars (50), distilled liquor (one 1.15 liter bottle), and film ( 15 rolls).
You can also bring in the following articles free of duty on condition that you take them out with you when you leave: binoculars, movie or video camera, still camera, laptop computer, and portable music system.
It is illegal to export objects over 100 years old (sacred images, paintings, manuscripts) that are valued for culture and religious reasons.
Visitors are advised not to purchase such items as they are Nepal's cultural heritage and belong here.
The Department of Archaeology at Ramshah Path near Singha Durbar has to certify all metal statues, sacred paintings and similar objects before they are allowed to be sent or carried out of the country.
Muzaffarabad: The capital of the Azad Jammu & Kashmir is situated at the confluence of the Jhelum & Neelum rivers.
The present name of Muzaffarabad has been given to it after the name of Sultan Muzaffar Khan, a chief of Bomba Dynasty (1652).
There are two forts, namely, Red & Black Fort, situated on the opposite sides of river Neelum.
The Neelum river streams through the town, joins river Jhelum at Domel and plays a dominant role in the micro climate of Muzaffarabad.
Places of interest in and around Muzaffarabad are: Pir Channasi, Shaheed Gali and Patika.
Balochistan is the largest province of Pakistan, which makes 44% of the country's land mass and It traces its history from times immemorial when it was inhabited by Stone Age hunters.
According to French Archaeologist Professor Jarrige, by 6,000 BC farmers on the Bolan River were cultivating barley, wheat and dates using floodwater and storing their surplus in large mud bins. The people here were growing cotton and making pottery.
Before the birth of Christ, Balochistan had commerce and trade links with ancient civilization of Babylon through Iran and into the valleys of Tigris and Euphrates.
Alexander the Great (326 BC) had an encounter with the Sibia tribe of Balochistan.
Muhammad Bin Qasim (711 AD) and Mehmood Ghaznavi (11th century AD) also invaded Balochistan resulting in the development of Muslim character.
Even today most tribal people of Balochistan province resemble Arabs and the inhabitants can be quite a fascinating subject of study by anthropologists.
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature.
Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities, which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
High Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line, coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub, the vast Indus plain merging into the great desert, the coast line and wetlands, all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna, both endemic and migratory.
Ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in Pakistan with species ranging from the world's smallest surviving mammals, the Mediterranean Pigmy Shrew, to the largest mammal ever known; the blue whale.
Northern areas of Pakistan, spread over 72,496 sq.Km. are as fascinating as its southern region.
Amidst towering snow-clad peaks with heights varying from 1000 m to over 8000 meter, the valleys of Gilgit, Hunza and Skardu recall Shangri-La.
The people with typical costumes, folk dances, music and sports like polo and buzkashi provide the traveler an unforgettable experience.
Nowhere in the world there is such a great concentration of high mountains, peaks, glaciers and passes except Pakistan.
Of the 14 over 8000 peaks on earth, 4 occupy an amphitheater at the head of Baltoro glacier in the Karakoram range and These are: K-2 (8611 m, world second highest), Broad Peak (8047m), Gasherbrum I (8068m) and Gasherbrum II (8035m).
The Northern Pakistan has some of the longest glaciers outside Polar region; Siachen (72 km), Hispar (61 km.), Biafo (60 km.), Baltoro (60 km.), Batura (64 km.), Yenguta (35 km.), Chiantar (34 km.), Trich (29 km.) and Atrak (28 km.).
The lower Himalayan valleys of Swat, Kaghan and Chitral in the Hindukush range equally share the beauty and diverse culture of the Northern Pakistan.
The Northern Area of Pakistan is a place where the world's three famous mountain ranges meet - the Himalayas, the Karakorams and the Hindukush.
The whole Northern Pakistan has come to be known as a paradise for mountaineers, climbers, trekkers, hikers and anglers of the most famous “Trout fish”.
In the northern regions of Pakistan, at a stone's throw from the Amu Darya, is” Bam-e-Dunya” (the roof of the world). This name was given to the great Pamir plateau, apex of six of the mightiest mountain ranges of the world.
The historic Karakoram pass 5,575 metres, an ancient trading route between Kashmir and Xinjiang, gives its name to the range west of it that forms the watershed between the Indus and the Central Asian deserts.
The eastern boundary of the Karakoram is the upper Shyok River from where it extends over 322 km. westwards to the Karumbar river and the Hindukush range.
The Nanga Parbat 8,126 metres massif is the western anchor of the great Himalayan range which stretches in an arc 24,124 km. east to Burma, a boundary and barrier, "the razor's edge" which for centuries has determined the destiny of the Indian sub-continent.
Such is the setting of Karakoram Range, this remnant of a primeval ice age, "the third pole," with extensive glacier systems and the greatest concentration of lofty mountains in the world.
Some of the largest glaciers outside sub-polar regions flow in the Karakorams.
For its sheer mountain grandeur and breath-taking panorama of beauty, few places can match the superb landscape through which the Karakoram Highway snakes.
A fantastic and unforgettable spectacle is the passage of the Highway along the Baltura glacier, rated among the worlds seventh largest.
The Khunjerab Pass, which the Highway crosses, and the nearby Mintaka Pass lie astride the fabulous ancient Silk Route that led from Europe to Asia and over which history's most famous tourists once travelled.
These include the Venetian trader Marco Polo after who has been made the wild Marco Polo sheep in the thirteenth century, the Chinese Monk Fe Hien in the fourth century and the Arab historian, Al-Beruni in the eleventh century.
The Siachin glacier is 75 km, the Hispar, (52 km) joints the Biafo at the Hispar La 5,154 metres to form an ice corridor, 116 km. long.
The Baltoro (62 km), a mighty glacier fed by some 30 tributaries constitutes a surface area of 1,219 sq. km. Of the fourteen over 8,000 m peaks on earth, four occupy an amphitheatre at the head of Baltoro.
There are K-2 (8,611) second only to Everest, Broad Peak (8,047 metres) Gasherbrum-I (8,068 metres), Gasherbrum-II (8,035 metres).
Seen from a distance, the Baltoro appears smooth and beautiful but in fact it is a chaotic tumbling mass of rock and ice, troughs and hillocks and the debris of centuries.
In the Lesser Karakorams there are equally great peaks such as Rakaposhi (7,788 metres), the dominant giant in Hunza valley.
There are scores of over 7,000 m peaks in the Karakoram Range and hundreds of nameless summits below 6,000 metres, mere points on the map.
The shapes, forms, sizes, colours provide tremendous contrast, which defy description. K-2, the undisputed monarch of the sky, Broad Peak, massive and ugly, Muztagh Tower, deceptively, sheer.
Gasherbrum-II, the "Egyptian Pyramid" that even Cheops would have preferred for a tomb, Chogolisa, the "Bride Peak", in whose eternal embrace lies Hermann Buhi, the first man to climb Nanga Parbat.
The Cathedrals of the Baltoro with their great knife-edge ridges, the sky cleaving monoliths of the Trango Towers and most beautiful of all - the Peak of Perfection - Paiyu, (6,600 metres) first climbed by a Pakistani expedition in 1977.
The Hindukush is also a mountain vastness containing hundreds of peaks, many above 7,000 metres including a Trichmir 7,705 metre that is the highest point of the range
The world's largest earth-filled dam on one of the world's most important rivers - the Indus - is 103 km from Islamabad.
Tarbela Dam Swabi is the biggest hydel power station in Pakistan having a capacity of generating 3,478 MW of electricity.
 Dam’s reservoir is 97 km long with a depth of 137 meters while total area of the lake is 260 sq.km. With a reservoir capacity of 13,690,000,000 cubic m, the dam is 143 m high and 2,743 m wide at its crest.
Permits are required to visit the Dam. Please contact Public Relations Officer (PRO), Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Tarbela (Tel: 0995-660562) or Member (Power) WAPDA House, Shahrah-e-Quaid-e-Azam, Lahore
For centuries, the Silk Route remained the main trading route between the South Asia and the Central Asia.
After the construction of the Karakoram Highway (KKH) in 1982 along the same alignment, joining Pakistan with Chinese Muslim autonomous region of Xinjiang, the ancient trade link has been revived.
The KKH has provided a great opportunity for international travellers to explore the un-spoilt natural beauty, unique culture and ancient traditions of the Northern Pakistan together with the other Silk Road countries like China, Kirgizstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
Karakoram means black mountain in Turkish, this splendid magnificent collection of dark brown and black metamorphic rocks is the most unique mountain range.
Karakoram has the largest concentration of lofty pinnacles and mountains in the world, stretching for 400 kms with 250 kms depth.
Karakoram is bounded by Shhyok River in the east and Karamber, Ishkuman and Gilgit Rivers in the west in the north-east it is bounded by Shaksgam river and in the south-west by Shyok and the Indus rivers,
Karakoram is specially characterized by its fissured rocks, gendarme like vertical features and steep slopes presenting great challenge to climbers and adventure seekers.
Four peaks above eight thousand meters i.e., K-2, Gasherbrum 1 & 2 and Broad Peak are situated in Karakoram in a radius of just twenty kms around a famous glacial junction called Concordia.
The sub regions of the Karakoram are Baltoro, Soltoro, Hispar, Lupghar, Khunjerab, Panmah, Aghilm, Masherbrum, Saser, Siachen, Rimo, Batura, Rakaposhi/Bogrot and Haramosh.
The snow line in Karakoram range varies between 4200 to 4500 meters during the summers.
The temperatures in the area are extreme and there is large difference between lowest and highest temperatures during a day and Monsoons do not penetrate this area.
Most suitable climbing season in Karakoram being from the month of May till end of September each year.
Climbing during winters is, however, possible, besides high mountains, Karakoram is inhabited by the largest glaciers outside the polar region.
The Chinese were the earliest known travelers on the famous Silk Route which passed through these magnificent ranges and recorded their impressions of dark mountains, rope bridges and mighty glaciers.
At 8’700 feet above sea level, Malam Jabba Ski Resort stands on top of a mountain of the Hindukush range, north east of Saidu Sharif.
Surrounded by mighty Karakorams and stunning Black mountains, Malam Jabba is more that just a Ski Resort. It is a holiday resort that caters to all interests and is also home to the remains of ancient civilizations.
Situated on one of the important offshoots of the Karakoram Highway, Malam Jabba is 314 km from Islamabad and 51 km from Saidu Sharif Airport on Saidu Sharif-Kalam Road. The road diverts right from Manglor to Malam Jabba
Mighty ranges of the Hindukush, the Karakoram and Black Mountains, gentle slopes, placid plains, torrential streams…Malam Jabba offers unlimited sights to behold.
The summer temperatures of 10oC to 25oC give way to lush green meadows and thick green forests of Pine & Deodar trees while In the winter when the temperature falls to –5oC to -10oC, the angel white snow make it the ideal place for skiing.
The 2000 years old archaeological remains situated at an altitude of 2600 ft above sea level include two Buddhist stupas and 6 monasteries, scattered over the slope opposite the main structure of the ski resort, measuring 310 meters north to south and 500 meters east to west.
The main stupa uncovered in these remains depicts a circular plinth, with moulding. The diameter is 13.01 meters; the maximum surviving height is 1.50 meters. The lower wall curves gently inwards and there is a small projection that steps out a short distance at the base of the actual stupa.
Malam Jabba boasts of two major treks amidst beautiful scenery, first track is winding through Ghorband Valley and Shangla top is 18 km from the resort, It is a jeepable track overlooking the Miandam settlement and reaches Shangla top in 1-1/2 hours from where the adventure seekers can proceed to the Karakoram Highway, while the other major track leads to Saboney valley, 17 km from the resort through thick Pine forests and peach and apple orchards.
Malam Jabba is part of the picturesque Swat valley which sprawls over 10,360 sq.km. Swat, which has been inhabited for over 2000 years is known to be the cradle of Buddhism.
The strategic location of Malam Jabba makes it convenient for tourists to access other tourist destinations such as: Mingora (the white palace, museum and orchard farms). Kabal (golf course) Miandam (for its scenic beauty & surrounding peaks)Kalam (for Trout fishing).
If Malam Jabba and its surroundings have already began to charm you, then you must visit these places and experience the enchantment for yourself.
Northern Pakistan has the greatest concentration of the highest peaks of the world, it has 05 peaks over 8,000 metres including the world’s second highest, K-2 (Chogori, 8611 m), 29 peaks of over 7,500 metres and 121 of over 7,000 metres.
All peaks/routes for mountaineering have been designated as open zone or restricted zone.
Permits for climbing peaks in open zone, are issued by the Ministry of Tourism, within 24 hours of the receipt of application.
However, for peaks/routes in restricted zone, permit is issued within 14 days form the date of receipt of the application in Ministry of Tourism, Government of Pakistan (Operation Section), 9th Floor, Green Trust Towers, Blue Area, Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad.
Pakistani Liaison Officer would accompany all mountaineering expeditions.
Stretching north from the Arabian Sea, the plains of Pakistan culminate into the lush valleys of Dir, Swat and Kaghan. Beyond them, lie the great northern valleys of Chitral, Gilgit, Hunza and Baltistan.
Separating the two river systems which drain from these valleys is the Hindu Raj range, a chain of mountains which forms one of the sharpest cultural boundaries in the world: the cultural line between Central and Northern Asia.
Still further north, the Karakoram and Hindu Kush ranges shape the western extension of the Himalayas.
Tough and sparsely populated, Pakistan’s northern valleys exhibit the diversity one would expect of a boundary area.
In the east, Baltistan shows an affinity with Tibet; in fact, its language is a dialect of archaic Tibetan and many remnants of Tibetan culture can still be observed, In the Gilgit region, Shina is the dominant language.