India is a vast country known for its diversified culture and traditions. 
India is a peninsular surrounded by water on three sides namely the Indian ocean, Bay of Bengal and Arabian sea.
In the north it bears the world’s highest mountain The Himalayas. 
Its neighboring countries are Pakistan, Bangladesh, China, Tibet and Sri Lanka.
 India attained its freedom in 1947 and now it is a world’s largest democratic country. India has about 26 states and 7 union territories. 
The unique characteristic of India is its “Unity in Diversity” although there are many cultures and religions and languages.
 As I am, resident from Chennai at south of India, I would like to elaborate its culture and business environment. 
The main states of southern India are Tamilnadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Andhrapradesh and Karnataka.
The main cities of significant value are Madras, Cochin, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Bombay and Coimbatore. These cities are of significant importance in each aspect. 
Madras now called as Chennai is popularly regarded as the "Gateway to the South". 
Chennai presents a culture that is distinctly different from that of northern India. 
Music, dance and all other art forms of the South are cherished and nurtured in this city which, though industrialized, continues to be traditional and conventional in many ways. 
Chennai is a gracious city that has a clear skyline, longest sandy beaches, parks, historic landmarks and tourist infrastructure facilities which make it a convenient entry point or base to start a tour of Tamil Nadu and South India.
The world headquarters of the Theosophical Society, formed to facilitate and encourage the study of comparative religion. 
Chennai, the gracious capital city of Tamil Nadu is the fourth largest metropolis in India. 
It is located on a 17km stretch of the Coramandel coast. 
With a population of 6 million people, Chennai is a vibrant city ever growing, expanding and changing every year. 
Chennai is now a upcoming business centre and one can find all kind of business around here. Chennai is always known for its automobiles industries (Ex.) Hyundai, Ford, TVS etc. 
There are many tourist places one can enjoy seeing they are Birla planetorium, State Museum, Zoological park, Bird Sanctuary and more. 
World famous institutions like Indian Institute of Technology, Anna University is here. 
Cochin, regarded as the Queen of the Arabian Sea, is situated in the southern west corner of India is a beautiful city and it’s the commercial capital of Kerala.
Estimated to hold about 15 million people (a census is on in the years 2000-2001), the city has grown dramatically in the last fifty years.
The core area called the "Island City" has the most expensive real estate in all of India. 
Cochin is a cluster of islands dotting on the magnificent emerald lakes which in turn open to the sea, making the city one of the finest natural harbors in the world. 
Due to its advantageous location, Cochin has experience the affluence from the sea borne trade and at the same time enjoyed various cultural influences brought in by different traders and visitors since the ancient times. 
A prime tourist destination of Kerala, Cochin is boasted for its extensively emerald backwaters lined with palm trees and local villages which represent the fascinating lifestyle of inhabitants who still used these course ways as their mode of transportation.
 It is a place which blended with historical places, palaces, forts, old churches, beaches, backwaters, snake boats races, Kathakali, museums and the convenience of a big city with towering buildings and business centers. 
Cochin is also famous for export of fisheries, spices, coconuts, cardamoms, tea, and rubber. 
Hyderabad, the fifth largest metropolis of India, is the state capital of Andhra Pradesh, known for its rich history and culture with monuments, mosques, temples, a rich and varied heritage in arts, crafts and music.
 Hyderabad has always been more than an amalgam of monuments, mosques, minarets, mansions, mandarins and memories. 
For two hundred years, it was the capital of a Muslim dynasty that ruled over a populace that was predominantly Hindu. 
This fact gave rise to a curious composite culture, which was hailed by many. 
Gradually this demographic shift was to change the character of the city altogether. 
Now Hyderabad is a city of significant importance. 
Visakapattinam in Andhra Pradesh is also a good city having one of the biggest harbors of India carrying out large exports and imports. 
Hyderabad is also famous for pearls and pearl jewellery.
 Tourist places like Birla mandir, Charminar, Golconda fort, Salnejung museum are found here.
Bangalore, capital of Karnataka, is called the Garden City for its delicate blossoms and greenery that impart a unique beauty to this lovely city.
The weather is the city's best feature, with pleasant summers and bearable winters.
 Bangalore is a cosmopolitan city, where different cultures and customs exist.
The serene, beautiful state of Karnataka ,extends a complete contrast to its bustling cities.
 It offers more than a perpetual holiday for - the daydreamers, the painters, the artist, the trekkers, the vacationers and more. It brings you close to nature and yourself.
 Karnataka has its famed temple sites like Belur, Halebid, Aihole, Badami and Hampi.
 These temples have been highly acclaimed by countless tourists, historians, archaeologists and art lovers, for the architectural wonders they are. 
More tourist places like Jog falls, Nandhi hills are found here. 
Bangalore is world famous for its software business. 
It offers a large number of software jobs and gets many foreign contracts. 
One of the best Institutions called the Indian Institute of Management and Indian Institute of Science are here. 
Bombay now called as Mumbai is the capital city of Maharashtra. 
Ancient yet modern, fabulously rich yet achingly poor, Mumbai is India in microcosm. 
Once a sultry tropical archipelago of seven islands, and the Raj's brightest jewel. 
Mumbai was the dowry of Portuguese Princess Infanta Catherine de Braganza who married Charles II of England in 1661. 
Today it's a teeming metropolis, commercial hub of an old civilization seeking to find
The snake park will interest of visitors of all ages.
Forty percent of India's taxes come from this city alone, and half of India's international trade passes through its splendid natural harbor.
 In fact Mumbai is the very soul of human enterprise.
 At the city's Stock Exchange, millionaires and paupers are made overnight and the sidewalks are crowded with vendors hawking everything from ballpoint pens to second hand mixies.
 Everyday, half of Mumbai's population commutes from far-flung suburbs to downtown offices, banks, factories and mills for a living. 
Nearly thirteen million people live here -wealthy industrialists, flashy film stars, internationally acclaimed artists, workers, teachers and clerks live here. 
The well known places of tourism are Chowpathy beach, Juhu beach, Elephanta caves, good markets like Crawford and chor bazaar are found here. 
Other places like Flora fountain, Bombay Natural History Museum, Hanging Gardens, Gateway of India are good places of tourism.
Built by the East India Company in 1639-1640, the fort marks the beginning of Madras as a modern city. 
It was one of the first bastions of British Power in India. 
Today the fort is used by the state legislative assembly and as the secretarial offices of the Tamil Nadu government. 
This museum contains many relics pertaining to the tenure of the East India Company and British India.
Besides, it has a collection of contemporary paintings as well.
The temple is   the biggest in the city and is dedicated to Lord Shiva. 
The temple contains inscriptions dating back to the 13th century AD and is a fine specimen of the Dravidian style of architecture. 
The 37 meter Gopuram is especially noteworthy for its intricate carvings depicting tales from Hindu mythology.
This temple,   dedicated to Lord Krishna, was built in the 8th century AD under the patronage of the Pallavas. 
It houses the idols of the five avataras of Sri Vishnu and has a small temple shrine dedicated to Vishnu's consort called Vedavalli Ammai in this part of the country.
Though Madras is   predominantly populated by Hindus, it has several fine monuments and places of worship connected to the Christian faith. 
The Santhome Cathedral was built by the Portuguese between the 14th and the 15 century AD and derived its name after St. Thomas.
 To this day it continues to be an important place of pilgrimage for the Christian community in the country and is also historically important.
This shrine is said   to be built at the site where St. Thomas lived and preached from a small cave. 
Situated near the   Airport, the small hillock is believed to be the place where the apostle was killed by his assassins.
This is the oldest Anglican church in Asia. 
The imposing white edifice was consecrated in 1679 AD, and continues to be an important place of worship.
It houses a variety of Indian snakes and reptiles which can be viewed from close quarters.
 Adjacent to the snake park is a children's park which has a large playing ground and collection of birds and animals.
Lining the east of the city is the famous Marina Beach. 
This is supposed to be the second longest beach in the world and runs to a length of 12 km. 
The beach can be ideally visited in the early mornings or in the late evenings when the area becomes a virtual fair ground; with food stalls and other entertainment.
Madras is also the fountainhead of the theosophical movement which spread worldwide. 
The Theosophical Society is located along the Adyar River. 
Discourses are conducted here under a huge banyan tree which spreads to almost 40,000 sq. ft. of area. 
It is open from 8 am and 11 am and 2 pm to 5 pm on Mondays to Fridays and from 8 am to 11 am on Saturdays.
Founded by Rukmini Devi   Arundale in 1936, the institution is devoted to the revival of traditional dance, textile designing, and weaving which are taught in naturally harmonious environs.
 Visitors may fix an appointment with the concerned authorities prior to the visit.
This modern   planetarium houses a fully computerized projector to depict the skies. It is situated at Kotturpuram in the city.
The museums   situated in the heart of the city at Egmore were founded in 1857.
 It houses various sections on geology, archaeology, numismatics, anthropology, botany and zoology. 
There is also a fine collection of sculpture and armory in the museum. 
It is open on all days except Fridays from 8 am to 5 pm.
The mortal remains of Dr. C.N. Annadurai, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu was buried at the Anna Square which is at the northern end of Marina Beach.
The aquarium located at the Marina Beach is open from 14.00 to 20.00 hours on week days and between 10.00 to 12.00 hours and 14.00 to 18.30 hours on Sundays.
This beach is comparatively quieter and an ideal place to go sea bathing. It is located near Besant Nagar.
Erected in memory of the poet saint Thiruvalluvar, the shrine at Nungambakkam is constructed after the temple car of Thiruvarur. 
The place also has a large auditorium.
Situated about 30 km from the city, the zoological park is spread over an area of 510 hectares.