Trevor's Tank is popular for bird watching with various species of birds like pigeons, peacocks and partridges.
Guru Shikhar is the highest peak on the Mount Abu which provides an excellent view of the whole town.
A small shaivite shrine and a temple of Dattatreya situated on the top of the hill are the two important points to visit.
The best way to experience the real magic of Thar Desert, Rajasthan is with the help of Desert Safari.
Rajasthali, Rajasthan Government Handicrafts Emporium and Khadi Bhandar are the major shopping places in Mount Abu.
April to June and October to November are the best time to visit the town.
Camel safari could be the best choice for the adventure-seeking tourists moving around the interiors of Thar desert, witnessing the cities and historical ruins of the city.
A unique opportunity to explore the small villages of Rajasthan, camel safari is most exciting and adventurous.
A wonderful activity on an open landscape of Thar Desert, Jeep Safari offers an excellent opportunity to explore the beautiful, calm and colorful land of Rajasthan.
With a blend of fun and excitement, Jeep Safari in Thar Desert of Rajasthan covers some of the most magnificent destinations of Rajasthan.
Majestic Sand Dunes in the Thar Desert is a unique offering of Rajasthan that is away from the Rajasthan colorful culture, wildlife, historical monuments, forts, gardens and lakes.
Untouched by the human skills and behaviors, the Sand Dunes of Rajasthan is a perfect gift of nature that presents magical view of the desert.
Overlooked by the blue sky, the wind shaped dunes attracts large number of tourist from all over the world and any trip to Rajasthan is incomplete without a trip to the sand dunes of Rajasthan.
The ripples formed by the dunes create a perfect location for the photographers to shoot.
The best way to explore the desert of Rajasthan is through camel safari, the most popular mode of desert sightseeing.
The interiors of Rajasthan can only be viewed through this mode which is often called as 'ships of Desert'.
Camel Safari in Rajasthan dates back to 16th century, which was primarily used to carry species and goods, have now become an important mode of recreation.
The magic of ancient camel caravan could be seen in the present form of Camel Safari that operates in the Thar Desert of Rajasthan.
An important part of Rajasthan tour, Camel Safari gives an inner view of the traditional and colorful Rajasthan.
Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner are known for the sand dunes but the most popular among them is Jaisalmer.
Most of the sand dunes are located in the surroundings of Jaisalmer.
Sam Sand Dunes is a perfect tourist destination known for the sunset and sunrise point.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the best nature's gift to the human beings.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the most popular dunes located on the turf of Thar Desert in Jaisalmer that attracts huge number of tourists throughout the year.
Manvar Desert is best for the outdoor adventures and excitement.
Visitors can keep themselves busy by going to the tribal villages, seeing desert wild life, witnessing the craft of local craftsman.
Bikaner is located to the north of Rajasthan popularly known as a camel country.
One of the ten most luxurious trains in the world, Palace On Wheels could be described as the pride of India known for the wonderful, unparallel, unforgettable and unique style onboard.
One of the finest ways to discover the royal land of Rajasthan, Palace On wheels passes through the inspiring, incomparable, implausible, impressive and inspirational land of India.
India's first vacation train, Palace On wheels started its royal journey in the year 1982 with the collective efforts of Indian Railway and Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation.
Today, this glorious Palace On wheels train has become an integral part of Royal Rajasthan and an Honor for India that covers some of the best tourist destinations in Rajasthan.
The royal journey rolls throughout the year expect between the month of May and August.
One of the world's most exciting journeys, the Palace on Wheels offers the world class services and facilities onboard.
The royal journey begins from Delhi and ends at Delhi after going through the destinations like Jaipur- Jaisalmer- Jodhpur- Sawai Madhopur-Chittaurgarh- Udaipur- Bharatpur- Agra- Delhi.
Pushkar fair is held every year on the auspicious fool moon day of the Hindu month of Karthik (October-November).
Rajasthan - the land bejeweled with immense natural & architectural wonders.
Albert Hall Museum Jaipur is supposed to be the oldest museum of the state.
Tourism Department has identified a number of new sites for creation of tourist complexes.
Haryana Tourism manages a number of hotels, motels and restaurants in all the districts of Haryana.
Panipat is situated on the banks of the river Yamuna, and here the three historical battles of Panipat were fought.
Panipat is an industrial town and is known for its handloom products.
Karnal, 'city of Daanvir Karan' has been a walled town as far as it is possible to trace and may have had a citadel one time.
Karnal is famous for Shoes, agriculture research institutions and Basmati Rice.
Panchkula district has a sub tropical continental monsoon climate where we find seasonal rhythm, hot summer, cool winter, unreliable rainfall and great variation in temperature.
Some of the loveliest place to travel are, Sangla Valley and Kalpa in district Kinnaur, Naldera, Narkanda and Sarahan in district Shimla, Manali and Manikaran in district Kullu, Dharamshala in district Kangra and Tabo in Lahaul & Spiti.
Palampur is famous for its agricultural university and tea gardens.
Himachal Pradesh is an excellent area to visit, for wildlife lovers, bird watchers and adventure tourists.
Shimla is a popular city with tourists.
The best months of the year to visit the Shimla are March-June (spring) September-October (autumn) and December-January (to experience the winter snow fall).
The snow clad Himalayas are visible from Shimla.
Rajasthan offers an extensive variety of cuisine's for its visitors- the variations being as diverse as its culture, its hereditary structure, its geography and its climate.
The royal charisma of Rajasthan tour brands it the most desiring tourist destination in the world.
The natural heritage in India is as rich and diverse as the cultural heritage.
The wildlife sanctuaries and the national parks here give you an essence of the same.
Nestled in the rich land is the Royal Bengal Tiger, the only home to the Royal Tiger Cat.
Bengal Tiger is the fastest running animal.
If you are fascinated by the royal Bengal tiger and wish to see it in its natural surroundings, a visit to these tiger reserves is bound to be an enchanting one.
Corbett National Park Corbett is a haven for Tigers as well as its prey, which include four kinds of Deer, Wild Boar and some lesser-known animals.
The Golden Temple is located in the holy city of the Sikhs, Amritsar, once and the dense forest home of Guru Nanak.
Dharamsala over looks the plains and is surrounded by dense pine trees and Deodar forests.
A nearby snowline with numerous streams and cool healthy atmosphere makes the surroundings very attractive.
Once known as an important seat of administration, Kangra the capital city of Chand dynasty tells a story of glory, which has faded into history.
One of the most picturesque valleys of lower Himalayas, the valley, sheltered by the sublime Dhauladhar hills, is green and luxuriant.
There is surfeit of adventure in the high land of Sikkim accompanied by lush green mountain trails, the stupas, monasteries and temples.
Get acquainted with the rich culture and heritage that is just grotesque and charming with its unbounded delightful rituals and festivities.
Sikkim presents a leisure trip- a cruise of adventure and exploring.
Since age's humans have a lust deep in their heart to fly like a bird in the vast blue sky, to some extent we humans are able to quench our this thrust by taking up the adventure of aero-sport to fly in open skies.
Himalayas are the world's top-notch mountain chain crowning with snow-capped peaks of 26,000 feet in height.
Trekking in India is an unforgettable experience as it not only let you to experience the unexplored trails made by nature.
Trekking also bring the visitor directly in touch with the country and its people and helps you to appreciate the mountain environment.
Himalayas are known as the one of the youngest mountain ranges in the world and is counted among the best trekking regions in the world.
The Indian Himalayan range is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular and impressive mountain ranges in the world.
The adventure trip inside the Thar desert is the one that you won't be able to forget your whole life.
Tourists can still enjoy the same desert experience in the Sam Sand Dunes in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, where special cultural performances are also organized by the Rajasthan tourism department for the entertainment of tourists in the evening.
The Gir National Park is a mixed deciduous forest with teak, flame of the forest, some Acacia and Banyan trees.
Gir national park is also home to one of the largest Leopard populations in any park in India.
There are numerous Tiger reserves in India, that are preserving this ferocious beast, but nowhere can you see them as often, and as regularly as in Kanha National Park.
One of the finest bird parks in the world, Bharatpur Bird Sanctuary (Keoladeo Ghana Natiuonal Park) is a reserve that offers protection to faunal species as well.
The major attractions of tourists visiting the park are the numerous migratory birds, which come from as far away as Siberia and Central Asia and spend their winters in Bharatpur, before returning to their breeding grounds.
One of the major attention grabber after the Bharatpur sanctuary is Government Museum of Bharatpur, which provides a glimpse of the past royal splendour of Bharatpur.
The Sariska park is home to numerous carnivores including Leopard, Wild Dog, Jungle Cat, Hyena, Jackal, and Tiger.
Sariska is also well known for its large population of Rhesus Monkeys, which are found in large numbers around Talvriksh.
Ranthambor National Park is included under the Project Tiger Reserves of the world and is more popular for its tiger population.
Viewing a tiger in its natural habitat is every wildlife zealot’s most desiring fantasy, which can be satisfied in forest of Ranthambore.
Ranthambore Wild Life Park is among the few sights in the world where the tiger regime is supreme.
The Ranthambore Wild Life Park is an abode of 272 species of birds and reptiles including the marsh crocodile and amphibians.
Ranthambhore also facilitates Jeep safari to explore the unexplored treasures of the forest, as it is the best means to explore the Royal Tiger.
The other attraction in the Wildlife National Park is the ruins of Ranthambore Fort and Jogi Mahal that date back to the 10th century.
Jogi Mahal now converted into Forest Rest House is famous for the second largest Banyan tree in India.
The Taj is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular buildings of the world.
Renowned for its architectural magnificence and aesthetic beauty, Taj counts among man's proudest creations and is invariably included in the list of the world's foremost wonders.
Described by the Indian classical poet Tagore as a "tear on the face of eternity", the Taj Mahal is undoubtedly the zenith of Moghul architecture and quite simply one of the world's most marvellous buildings.
Agra with its riches of architecture splendor, bazaars and ornaments is amongst the most outstanding cities of the world.
Visitors from all over the world throng to the Shiipgram city during Taj Mahotsav and enjoy it up to the full extent.
Visitors coming to Agra will definitely take one along with him to preserve Taj in their memories.
Agra also holds the charm of shopping in leather bags, embroidery shoes and of course the Petha (sweetmeat) is a specialty of Agra.
Even if situated in the middle of nowhere, the Khajuraho temple complex site is one the most popular places both foreign and Indian tourists.
Temples of Khajuraho hold the attention of a visitor with their sculptural art, which is so exquisite and intricate, that one cannot even dream of cloning it now.
Perfect in execution and sublime in expressions Khajuraho temples are a dedication to the womanhood.
The artist's creative instincts have beautifully captured various facets and moods of life in stone.