One of the most centrally located hill station of Uttar Pradesh; Almora is based at a height of 1646 meters.
Only 67 miles away from Nainital, Almora is surrounded by the Trishul peaks on the northern side.
The region around Almora was ruled by the Katyur dynasty from the 9th century AD.
 In 1560 Almora was made the capital of the Chand rulers.
Occupied by the Chand dynasty till the 18th century, it was annexed by the Gurkhas in 1798 and finally the British after the Gurkha wars of 1814 1815. 
Over the centuries, Almoras has retained its preeminence as a cultural and administrative centre and an important market town for the region.
How much you can expect to spend on a holiday in Uttaranchal will depend on when and where you go and what you do.
During the peak tourist season, in summer, prices of accommodation rise appreciably; off season rates can be much lower.
If you’re going to restrict yourself to the cities or the top tourist destinations, you an expect to shell out close to a thousand bucks a day for good accommodation, transport and dining maybe more.
In smaller places, where accommodation will probably be in local rest houses, you can spend as little as a hundred rupees daily for a room, meals and transport.
In the smaller towns of Uttaranchal, banking options will be of a strictly limited nature, restricted to minor branches of government banks that do not offer many facilities and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling, and often not even that.
Major international credit cards are accepted in large hotels and shops in cities like Dehradun or in more touristy places don’t count on it though; carry adequate cash to be on the safe side.
Most business travelers find doing business in Uttaranchal an exercise in frustration as the bureaucratic red tape slows things down, and the labor base is sluggish and unprofessional.
Power is forever in short supply and on the whole, a healthy business environment is sadly lacking.
But for those determined to play the business game in this state, here are a few pointers.
With increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level, business protocol adheres to western standards, although in smaller places there’s still a lot of `Indian ness about the whole thing.
Sightseeing Almora still retains elements of its past as a popular summer getaway for British experts working in India during the glory days of the British Raj.
It developed into an important cantonment for the British troops stationed in the plains of north India.
Post independence, many British families with strong emotional ties to the place stayed back and Almora became their home away from home.
Parallel to the Mall is the market area, which is only open to pedestrian traffic.
It has a distinctive hill station character with traditional carved wooden facades on buildings and shops at ground level.
Above the Mall is the main temple complex with shrines dedicated to and Lord Shiva.
The temple of Nanda Devi, presiding deity of Almora and named after the regions highest peak, is built in the typical Kumaoni style of stone temple architecture.
The stone amalaka or crown is encircled by a wooden roof, and the stone walls have intricately carved images.
The temple complex throbs with music and dance during the Nanda Devi festival in August.
The near the bus stand is a repository of Kumaoni art, culture and history.
There are displays of archaeological finds from the Katyur and Chand periods.
In addition, the museum exhibits a collection of apen or folk paintings.
The museum is open to the public from 10:30 am till 04:30 pm on all days except Monday.
5 kms from Almora, has a magnificent view of the valleys and soaring peaks of Kumaon.
It is also a good place to catch the sunrise and sunset that transform the surrounding landscape into a myriad hued spectacle of gold, green and red.
There is a Circuit House for staying overnight at this secluded spot.
8 kms from Almora is the hilltop shrine of (goddess Durga), where Swami Vivekananda sat in meditation.
Close by is a library in the Ramakrishna (Vivekanandas Guru) Kutir, which has a collection of books on religious philosophy.
With a collection of some deer species, leopards and the Himalayan black bear, the park is a good place for a walk, though the wildlife is not too exciting.
Another quick getaway in the forested hills is about 3 kms from Almora.
8 kms from Almora is the, nestling amidst fir and pine forests.
A temple highly revered by the local people, its setting is what makes it interesting to visit.
In your pursuit of peace and solitude, perhaps you will come across Amboli, a tranquil hill station on the Western Ghats, surrounded by thick forests and tree canopied hills.
On the coastal side, Amboli peers over the tree lined sandy ribbon of the Konkan coast; on the other three sides, you are rewarded by a magnificent panorama of the sweeping valley.
The hill station is very charming in winter when the rains have stopped and there are a thousand waterfalls gushing down the hills.
This is an idyllic place to relax, unwind and go for long walks.
Spend your days meandering through scenic hills capes and misty forests, pack a picnic and wander up un trodden paths.
Go fishing at Hiranya Keshi, picnic at Nagatta Falls, Mahadev Gad and Narayan Gad, sightseeing at the Bauxite Mines, Sea View and Shirgaonkar.
So when you just want to get away from it all, come to Amboli.
The chances are that you will lose track of time in this quiet retreat with its rejuvenating climate and charming mountain scenery.
Amboli is 549 km from Mumbai and 390 km from Pune.
The nearest railhead is at Sawantwadi, 30 km away.
You can get here on State Transport buses from Mumbai, Pune and Belgaum Taxis and rickshaws are available, or you can hire cycles and move around on horseback.
Amboli's bracing climate makes it a year round destination.
The hill station is at its rain washed best just after the monsoons when waterfalls cascade down the mountains.
Carry light woolens and rain protection no matter what the weather.
There are hotels, motels, tourist guesthouses and an MTDC resort.
The Rajasansi airport, about 11 kms from town, is connected by domestic flights to Delhi, Srinagar and Chandigarh.
You can get to town by a pre booked rented car, taxis or auto rickshaws.
By train Amritsar is connected by direct trains to major Indian cities like Delhi, Jammu, Mumbai, Nagpur, Calcutta and Puri.
The biweekly train to Pakistan, Samjhauta Express, has recently been discontinued by the Indian government due to escalation of cross border hostilities.
By road you can drive into Amritsar from neighboring states.
Bus services also connect Amritsar with most north Indian towns, including Chandigarh (235 Kms), Delhi (450 Kms), Shimla, Kulu, Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh, Dehradun and Rishikesh in Uttar Pradesh and Jammu.
There is also a bus service to Lahore, 35 kms away, which is the only overland connection between India and Pakistan.
Rented cars are available and you can book one through a travel agent or your hotel.
Un metered auto rickshaws and cycle rickshaws are the most common mode of local transport within the city.
If you wish to travel short distances within the city and don’t mind some exercise, bicycles available from the Hide Market are worth trying out.
The best time to visit Amritsar is between November and March when the weather is very pleasant.
Summers get really hot and visitors need to acclimatize themselves to this dry and searing heat.
Amritsar has several expensive and midrange hotels.
One can also stay in the Golden Temple Complex.
The up market hotels are along the Mall Road and offer facilities like swimming pools and gyms.
For a visit to the Gurudwaras, head covering is required, simple scarves or handkerchiefs will suffice.
The good restaurants are all in the newer city areas to the north of the station.
From fast food stalls selling ice creams and pizzas to great Punjabi fare in Dhabas and restaurants you get them all here.
In the restaurants of the up market hotels you can also sample some Chinese cuisine in addition to continental dishes.
Amritsar is best known for its woolen blankets and sweaters.
Carpets and dry fruits are also worth checking out.
Katra Jaimal Singh near the Telephone exchange in the old city is good for shopping.
If you are a little more adventurous, you could stroll further down the alleys and by lanes of the Bazaar area to discover some interesting knickknacks.
There are tours running from the Golden Temple complex covering around Amritsar, including those at Gobindwala, Tarn Taran, Baba Bikala, Buddha Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Damdama Sahib and Chheharta.
The bus leaves from the clock tower near the Golden Temple at 8 am and returns around 5 pm Hari Ke Pattan on the outskirts of the city is a popular picnic spot.
Sitting on the confluence of the Beas and Sutlej rivers, it is a bird sanctuary and good spot for angling.
The village of Amanat Khan, southwest of Amritsar has an old Mughal 'serai ' (rest house) with a tiled gateway.
Nearby is a mosque with Persian inscriptions and the tomb of Amanat Khan.
About 28 kms from Amritsar is the border station of Atari and the check post between India and Pakistan.
This is the only overland opening between the two countries, which continue to have hostile relations ever since independence in 1947. 
The check post has now become a popular site for tourists, who come to see the change of guards and retreat of troops at sundown.
The drill, choreographed with aggressive posturing and saber-rattling, draws loud cheers from spectators on both sides.
Taxis can be hired from Amritsar for the visit.
Climate summer months between May and August are hot and dry in Amritsar when day temperatures go beyond 40° C.
Monsoons bring some respite while winters are cold with minimum temperatures falling down to 4° C. 
First time visitors to Amritsar could be forgiven for the impressions that Amritsar is like any other small town in northern India.
In one sense, it is with bustling markets, haphazard traffic, unyielding cattle, crowds and congestion typical of small town India.
But Amritsar stands head and shoulders above any other city, its status elevated and sanctified by the presence of the venerable Golden Temple.
Located in the heart of Amritsar, the temple complex is surrounded by a maze of narrow lanes, or katras, that house one of the busiest markets in India.
But the Golden Temple is a serene presence, radiating a calm that makes people bow their heads in reverence.
The Gurudwara, as Sikh temples are called, is the holiest of Sikh shrines.
It is not just Sikhs who travel to the Golden Temple to pay homage, the sacred shrine is equally revered by Hindus and people of other faiths who, too, make the pilgrimage to offers prayers at Harmandir Sahib.
There's more to Amritsar than that amongst other sights is Jallianwala Bagh, site of the gruesome massacre of unarmed Indians by British troops.
A major tourist attraction these days is the Indo Pakistan border crossing at Wagah, just a short distance from Amritsar, with its elaborate change of guards drill with a lot of strutting and intimidatory showing off by both sides.
If you are 'doing' north India, Amritsar is a city you should not miss and it's easy to travel there from Delhi by road and by rail.
It is easy to navigate through the city; few guides bother you as tourism is not the most important commercial activity here.
Ask them in Amritsar, and they will tell you that if for nothing else you must travel here for the roadside Chhola Bhaturas.