Nehari is a Ramzan special and makes rare appearance the rest of the year, however, if you time it well, you can grab a plate at the restaurants around Hyderabad’s Nampally station.
Every night during Ramzan, cooks across Hyderabad. Throw in Gaot’s heads, toungs and trotters into cauldrons of water, add amysterious muslin potli and leave it to simmer.
By daybreak, the ingredients transforms into the divine nehari,, a thin spicy soup that gets its unique flavour from potli, containing Sandalwood powder, rose petals, votives roots ,camphor and 27 other spices.
Chakhna is lunchtime special made of goat intestines and leftover meat portions, eaten with kulchas.
A spacious dining hall – lined with tables and busy waiters spooning out samber, buttermilk and chutneys to grab-a-bite office goers and shoppers – Abhiruchi is a no- frills restaurant.
For a quich lunch try ghee rice mixed with karampodi (gunpowder) or curd rice with curd chilli (dry red chilies marinated in curd and deep fried ).
The Thali is vegetarian but meat lovers have a tough choice between gongura mutton and fish curry.
Try to avoid peak lunch hours (between 1 pm and 2 pm), when the clattering of   stainless steel becomes deafening.
Karachi Bakery- this is among three things – besides the Charminar and Biryani – that old Hyderabadis take great pride in.
This bakery was among the Nizams’ favorites (the signboard still flaunts the royal patronage it enjoyed long ago) and remains popular even today.
The fare is pretty regular but no one bakes such crisp and melts in- the-mouth cookies as Karachi Bakery.
Do try this cashew cookies and osmania biscuits, named so because it was served to patients at the Osmainia Hospital. 
Southern spices- here are real Andhra food with all its fiery glory, served in a traditional setting complete with mud pillars and rangoli.
Southern spices’d menu gives fair representation to all the regional flavors of Andhra cuisine.
Along with Nellora vepudu (fish fry), don’t miss the wholesome jonne (jowar roti) with gongura mamsam ….it is as close as you can get to tasting ambrosia.
Give the desserts a miss though – caramel custard after spices curd rice? If you are heading here during lunch or dinner hours, then factor of waiting time of at lest 15 minutes.
You can instead, go for the Andhra breakfast, a fairy recent addition, binge on kheema or egg dosas and appams with kodi pulusu (chicken Curry) and mamsam pulusu (mutton curry).
Irani Chaikhanas are dot almost every corner of the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, invariably most have creaky tables and parsimonious owners, who are reluctant to switch on the fans.
However, one loud slurp of the creamy chai is worth all the discomfort.
The perfect accompaniments are the sweet ‘n’ salty Osmania biscuits or the onion filled Chhota Samosas.
The legendary Chaikhanas are Alpha in Secunderabad (it apparently serves 2, 00,000 cups of tea daily), grand in abids, besides A Shadab and Madina in the Charminar area.
Famous ice cream- this 50 year old parlor is in an ill – kept but charming colonnade, in the heart of a bustling fruit and vegetable market.
The local’s throngs here for the no-preservative, melt-in a –minute ice creams made in cavernous backrooms.
Depending on the season, try mango, figs, sapota or sharifa flavors, you can’t eat just one.
Nanking is a nondescript restaurant which initiated Hyderabadis to Chinese and Cuisine and continues to indulge them with its conventional yet irresistible fare. 
This was for more than 50 years, the only place Hyderabadis went to for Chinese food – even though it’s at the other end of town, and always noisy and crowded.
Other crispy chicken to begin with, move on to the hot and spicy wanton soups and try bamboo shoot noodles with roast pork or lemon chicken for course.
Sadly Nanking’s dingy interiors can be a complete put- off but there’s always the take- away, give the dessert a miss.
Snow –white interiors, avant-grade furniture, muted lights, soothing music….this and stylish rest bar owned by Telugu film star Nagarjuna is a good place to do some evening ‘star’ gazing.
The bar is well- stocked and the restaurant is risottos, ratatouille, bruschetta etc.) with a smattering of oriental cuisine.
Both the bar and the restaurant have niches and alcoves for those who want privacy.
Cosy candle –lit interiors, scrumptious food, sparkling wine and the city’s hip and happening crowd for company make F9(Fusion 9) a must-visit.
The restaurant serves nine cuisine (hence the name including Vietnamese, Middle Eastern and Indonesian.
To do justice to the menu, stick to one cuisine for each course.
Arabic Kafta Kebab and chicken satay make great starters; the steaks – fish, chicken and tenderloin – are Fusion’s specialty.

The name is misleading – Dakshin is in fact a multi cuisine restaurant in Vishakhapatanam.
Meat lovers swear by this place as the  heavily partial towards them, Dakshin’s claim to fame is the delectable brain fry, cooked tender with the just the right amount of spices.
But for some reason- perhaps not to offer its vegetarian clientele – the dish isn’t listed in the menu. But go right ahead and order, you will love it.
Quite obviously, Hydrabadi biryani tops my list of favorites, but close contenders are Golconda Hotel’s chapala pulusu and chicken 65.
The vegetarian fare at Tirupati is a good as the temple’s laddu prasadam, the uluva pulusu at traditional Nellore homes is ald\so good.
There are arts villages as well as designer stores to entice the shopper, road on to know what you shouldn’t miss.
Right next to the Charminar, this 400 year old market, Laad Bazaar sells every thing from kitchen implements to diamond jewellery.
Once here, head to the colorful Churi Bazaar first- shimmering with the colorful glass, metal and the must-buy stone – studded lac bangles.
The heavily embroidered zardosi saris and dresses will make heads turn, even though most of them are very dressy.
Laad Bazaar is also the heart of Hyderabad’s pearl trade, but use your discretion and don’t forget to bargain.
Hyderabad and Secuunderabad are dotted with pearl traders selling strands of loose pearls as well as readymade and custom – made jewellery.
If you can’t tell the real form the fake, then strike bargains at the stalls on Laad Bazaar or Pathargatti, otherwise Mangatrai pearls and Jagdamba pearls are two big names that offer the best, well at a responsibly steep price.
Windows shopping can’t get any better than here, in Shilaramam.
Spread over grassy lawns dotted with rocks and tinkling waterfalls, this scenic art and crafts village lets you buy straight from the artesian even as you watch them at work.
Don’t miss a bargain with the dhurrie weavers, stone carvers and the chatty woman selling heavily embroidered Banjara skirts and wall hangings.
Pochampally the tiny village is a home to weaver who uses the ikat (tie or dye) method to make Pochampalli saris and fabric colors and bold geometrics patterns.
This is also the best place to shop for the saris.
So, pack your lunch (highway motels are best avoided) and head for the Pocaampalli Handloom Weaver’s Corporative Society.
Bargain even as you watch the weavers at their looms, some of the bright reds, greens and black tends to run, also check by rubbing a tissue or white cloth on the silk.
The names are as exotic as the fragrances, bottled in crystal clear containers- Rooh-e-Hina ( the spirit off Hina) Zulf-e-Uroos(the tresses of a bride ) and so on.
The best place to buy attar is Charkaman in Hyderabad, the seller, probably would be an elderly man with kohl-rimmed eyes and a wad of cotton tucked behind his ear.
Take your pick from the mind –boggling range (some shops boasts of more than 70 varieties)- Chameli, motia, gulab, (the ones derived from flowers can be strong), musk, amber oud (derived from a tree bark) and even matti (derived from damp earth soon after the first summer rain).
If you want to experiment and have your caocktail attar, try Nizam Attar (Charkaman) or Hyderabadi perfumes (Pathargatti).
A 10 ml vial can cost anything between Rs. 800 to Rs. 8,000.
Kalanjali art and crafts is a one- stop shop for all things Andhra – silk and cotton fabric, linen, stone and wood carvings, floor coverings, furniture.
This three storeyed shop (between of other shops with same name) has one of the finest collections of sculptures in Hyderabad.
It’s also one of the best places to buy lacework crotchet, made by artisans of the west and east Godavari districts.
The prices are steep, but not enough to burn holes in your pocket, the store also has home delivery service, to save your trouble of transporting bigger purchases.
Andhra pickles taste exactly as they look – red hot and fiery, the bestseller is the tangy pickled gongura leaf, which is unique to the sate.
Close contenders are the many varieties of avakkai (mango) tamarind and the red hot chillipickle (that makes even the natives break out in sweet).
To watch an entire village tranforns logs o light- colored wood (called TellaPoniki by lacals)into smiling gods and goddesses, cherubic children or colorful birds, visit Kondapllli.
Come to here and shopping bulk, taking home the bright but brittle toys at anything between Rs. 10 and Rs. 10,000.
The prices here will be at least 25 percent less than what the fancy emporia in Vijaywada and Hyderabad charge.
Abot 35 kms from Tirtupati the temple town pf Klalhasti is the best place to buy kalamkari fabric.
Kalamkari deriving it’s name from Kalam(pen) and Kari(work), stands for the busy patterns on the cloth painted with colors made from seeds, flower and even cowdung ! the theme could be anything from Ramayana, the Mahabharata to anything around – trees, birds and animals.
To catch the Painters at work, walk into Vijaylakshmi Kalamkari arts on Agraham street.
The customer friendly fashion store in Hyderabad, Elahe is housed in A bungalow, which has been converted to suit the requirements of an outlet.
This is a place for shop for clothes and jewellery by leading Indian designers like Rohit Bal, Wndell Rodericks, Sabyasachi, Anju Modi, Anamika Khanna and many more.
This 3,000 sq feet store also offers home accessories and furnishings along with knick-knacks.
I like to buy elegant Mangalagiri handloom products from Mangalgiri village itself, for ethnic handbags I go to the various malls and handicraft centers.
The Lepakshi showrooms are good for silver and wooden accessories, and Pulla Reddy is the last word on traditional Andhra sweets. 
There’s the dazzle of the Naizam’s city as well as picture perfect gateway to keep travelers coming to this southern state.
Charnminar – the graceful tower stands for everything Hyderabadi – its confluence of cultures, royal past and the life that is alive and buzzing like the markets around it.
The Charminar is spectacular at night when it is lit up, and if you can climb up the spiral staircase to the ramparts, you can see the dream the city’s founder Quli Qutb shah had in mind when he ordered the capital to be embellished by mosque, bazaars, and palaces.
Durgam Cheruvu: hidden by hills and rocks, the lake’s serenity, despite its proximity of the city comes as a surprise.
Spend the afternoon peddle boating or lolling on shikaras, when hungry; pitch your hook to catch fish.
There is a bar and restaurant near lake to drown your sorrow and fill your stomach.
As dusk falls, the surroundings rocks, light up, a fountain springs up in the middle of the lake and its time to head back.
Durgam Ceruvu is near Madhapur, just beyond Shilparamam and Hitec City in Hyderabad, boats and angling equipments are available on hire.
Every man in this Kuchipudi Village can dance, they say, as a tribute, perhaps, to Siddhendra Yogi and the dance from he conceived of and nurtured in this place.
The Siddhendra Yogi’s dilapidated dance school has today been transformed into a lovely fine arts collage called Siddhendra Kalakshetra.
Resounding with foot tappings and mridangam beats, it’s a must visit for every arts lover.
Every February –March there is a dance Festival held here called Siddhendra Yogi Dance Festival.
From Hyderabad, catch an overnight train to Vijaywada , Kuchipudi village is a 60 km drive from there, for an overnight stay, there’s Vijaywada’s grand residency at Prakasam Road.
Atop a granite hill, Golconda has every reason to be proud – it defied the mighty Mughals for eight months before intrigue and betrayal led to its fall.
The secret of impregnability – a ring of three massive walls; a system of pipes and pumps that ensures unending water supply; and incredible acoustics.
One clap at the gate would travel seven levels up to the fort.
To relive the fort’s grand day’s catch the light and sound show held every evening (November- February: 6:30 to 7:30 p.m.; March-October 7-8 p.m.).
In the background of the show there are Gazals by Jagjit Singh and the narrator is none other than Amitabh Bachchan.
On your way back stop at the paigah tombs, a landscaped garden where the entire Qutb Shahi clan is buried; paigah is about a kilometer from the fort.
Golconda fort is an easy 13 kilometers from Hyderabad city, take a luxury bus, taxi or an autorikshwa to reach there.
The imposing structure of Salarjung Museum is a treat in itself.
The museum has awe-inspiring collection of 40,000 exibits, collected over 35 years by one person- Mir Yusuf Ali Khan Salar Jung III, prime minister to the Nizam.
The connoisseur gave up his post around 1914 to build this vast collection of Indian European scuplpures, persian carpets, Chinese jade and Japanase procelain.