Two of the best train’s viz. Shatabdi express (between Delhi and Bhopal) and Taj Express (between Delhi and Gwalior) are available to access Agra.
Agra, on cross roads of national highways 2, 3 and 11, is excellently connected to all parts of the country.
Kheria Airport (Airport of Agra) is about 6 km from the Agra city centre and is easily accessible by taxis and auto rickshaws at nominal rates.
Agra is well connected by excellent train services to Delhi such as The Shatabdi Express (2 hrs), Taj Express (2. 5 hrs), Intercity Express (3 hrs).
Agra is the one of the prominent destinations of the World Tourism map with three heritage monuments, Taj Mahal, Red Fort & Fatehpur Sikri.
Agra is more just a decadent city of graveyards and stones, but it is a vibrant centre of Culture, Art and Religious philosophies that have enriched mankind and shaped human thought over centuries.
Agra is situated in the State of Uttar Pradesh, India.
Agra is famous as being home to one of the Seven Wonders of the World the Taj Mahal.
The architectural splendor of the mausoleums, the fort and the palaces is a vivid remainder of the mausoleums, the fort and the palaces is a vivid reminder of the capital in the 16th and early 17th centuries.
While Agra’s significance as a political centre ended with the transfer of the capital to Delhi in 1634 by Shah Jahan, its architectural wealth has secured its place on the international map.
A pleasant town with comparatively slow pace, Agra is known for its superb inlay work on marble and soapstone by craftsman who is descendant of those who worked under the Mughals.
Agra was once the capital of the Mughal empire and even today it seems to linger in the past.
Not surprising, for the Mughal emperors with their passion for building, endowed the city with some of the finest structures in the world.
It is very easy to slip away here through the centuries into the grandeur and intrigues of the Mughal court.
Agra is an old city and it is said that its name was derived from Agrabana, a forest that finds mention in the epic Mahabharata.
In more recent times Agra came into prominence when Sikandar Lodi made it his capital city in 1501.
The Lodi rule was to end very soon and Agra passed into the possession of the Mughals.
It was during the time of the third emperor Akbar that Agra came into its own.
Akbar embarked on the construction of the massive Agra Fort in 1565.
Agra continued to retain its importance and Shah Jehan, Akbar's garndson ornamented the city with that masterpiece of Mughal architecture the Taj Mahal and built several other beautiful buildings within the Agra fort .
Inside The Taj Mahal the Cenotaph of Mumtaz Mahal stands in the centre of the marble screen, it has inscribed on it in Persian with texts from the Koran.
Above the tombs is a Cairene lamp, the flame of which is supposed to never burn out.
Above the tombs is a Cairene lamp, the flame of which is supposed to never burn out.
The interior of the mausoleum comprises a lofty central chamber, a crypt immediately below this and four octagonal corner rooms originally intended to house the graves of other royal family members.
In the centre of the Taj Mahal there are the cenotaphs of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal.
Shah Jahan's cenotaph is to the left and is higher than that of his beloved which rests immediately below the dome.
The acoustics of the building are superb with the domed ceiling being designed to echo chants from Koran and musician's melodies.
It is suggested that one walk around the outside of the tomb, before retrieving your shoes, to appreciate it from all sides. 
Taj Mahal Location in the mid16th and earlier 17th centuries, Agra witnessed a frenzied building activity and it was during this time that the symbol of love, the Taj Mahal, was built.
The buildings made during mid16th and earlier 17th centuries were purely in the contemporary Mughal style and of very high quality.
The buildings made during mid16th and earlier 17th centuries were purely in the contemporary Mughal style and of very high quality. 
Agra, the city of the Taj Mahal and once the capital of the Mughal Empire, has several monuments which display the splendour of Mughal architecture.
It was Agra that Babar, the founder of the dynasty, had the first formal Persian garden laid out on the banks of the river Yamuna.
Akbar, his grandson, raised the towering ramparts of the great Red Fort, within whose walls Jahangir built rose red palaces, courts and gardens, and which Shahajahan embellished with marble mosques, palaces and pavilions of gem inlaid white marble.
Agra is mentioned in the ancient epic Mahabharata as Agraban, the sister city of the more prominent Mathura. 
Agra was established in 1475 by Badal Singh and came into its own when Sikander Lodhi of the Lodhi dynasty chose it for his capital because of its proximity to the Yamuna.
Babar defeated the Lodhis to capture not only Agra but also to lay the foundation of the Mughal Empire.
On the banks of river Yamuna, raises the crescent like Agra Fort.
Designed and built by Emperor Akbar in 1565 A .D. the fort is surrounded by a 70 foot high wall.
Agra Fort houses the beautiful Pearl Mosque and numerous palaces including the Jahangiri Mahal, Khas Mahal, DiwaniKhas, DiwaniAm, Machihi Bhawan and Moti Masjid.
The Agra Fort has four gates and is enclosed by a double battlemented wall of red sand stone.
Mosques of Taj Mahal on either side of the Taj Mahal are buildings of red sandstone.
Before we have a look at the mosque, let us take note of a small stone enclosure along the western boundary wall where the well of the Mosque is located.
This greenery shaded structure, measuring 19 ft by 6. 5 ft marks the site where the remains of Mumtaz Mahal were deposited when first brought to Agra.
The platform in front of the Mosque is of red sandstone.
A highly polished small marble piece is so fitted that it serves as a mirror and one can see the mausoleum reflected in it.
The roof of the Mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes.
The roof of the Mosque supports four octagonal towers and three elegant domes.
The story of Taj Mahal is inseparable from the life of Mumtaz who was the chief queen of Shahjahan.
Prince Khurram, as Shahjahan was known before he became the Mughal emperor, was a handsome twenty year old man, when he was betrothed to Mumtaz.
It is said that the imperial capital of Agra was agog with the description of Mumtaz’s beauty at the time of the betrothal.
The maiden name of Mumtaz Mahal was Arjumand Banu Begum Prince Khurram had been married twice before he met and married Mumtaz Mahal.
It is said that Mumtaz Mahal on her deathbed had herself asked her husband to create a symbol of their love for posterity.
Before the construction of Taj Mahal began, Mumtaz Mahal was given a temporary burial in the Zainabadi garden in Burhanpur for a period of six months, before the body was exhumed and brought to Agra, for the final burial.
Taj Mahal is a monument of love.
Taj is the pride of India.
The story behind Taj Mahal is also as beautiful as the monument.
Arjumand Banu a shopkeeper was sitting at her shop in Meena Bazar, the private market attached to the harem, when Prince Khurram saw her for the first time.
Khurram saw a piece of glass at Arjumand Banu’s shop and asked for it's worth she replied that it is a diamond and not glass.
Emperor Jahangir entitled Prince Khurram as 'Shah Jahan' and when he became emperor he entitled his wife as Mumtaz Mahal 'the chosen one of the palace'.
Mumtaz was very compassionate, generous and demure.
Before dieing Mumtaz extracted a promise from Shah Jahan that after her death he would build the most beautiful building of the world as a tribute to their love.
Sikandra Fort is the mausolumn of emperor Akbar represent his philosophy and secular outlook, combining the best of Hindu and Muslim architectures in a superlative region.
Completed in 1613 A .D. by his son Jahangir, Sikandra Fort is one of the well preserved monuments.
Sikandra Fort is the last resting place of the Mughal Empror Akbar.
A visit to Akbar's monument opens before one, the completeness of Akbar's personality as completely as the Taj Mahal does of Mumtaz Mahal's.
Akbar's vast, beautifully carved; red ochre sandstone tomb is set amidst a lush garden.
To construct a tomb in one's lifetime was a Tartary custom which the Mughals followed religiously.
Built of red sandstone, the minarets are inlaid with white marble polygonal patterns; the pleasing Proportions & Profuse surface ornamentation makes the gateways very impressive.
The gateways reflect a curious hybrid of different styles of architecture Hindu, Muslim, Christian and a patent mixture of Akbar's typical style.
A broad paved causeway lead to the tomb, which has five storeys and is in the shape of a truncated pyramid.
The main tomb has a unique square design which is unparalleled by all other Mughal buildings.
The centre of the southern side is occupied by a vestibule, which has been ornamented very profusely with exquisite carvings, artistic paintings & inlay work in geometric and floral designs.
The tombstone of Akbar is placed in the centre of room Geometrical designs achieved by the mosaics of glazed tiles or of colored stones, predominate the tomb.
The use of an ornamental arch and square pillar has brought about unique composition.
The fifth storey is entirely in white marble as against the lower storey which is finished in red sandstone.
False gateways, which may be appropriately called water pavilions, have been constructed in the centre of the north and south sides.
The shallow water channels, which originally took water from two overhead tanks situated on the riverside, run on all sides of the garden and around the mausoleum pictures of Taj Mahal.
The story of Taj Mahal reflects the intensity of love.
Akbar invited the architects and artisans all over the world and planned for the building with absolute perfection.
Taj Mahal was structured in Persian style combined with carvings of artisans called from Afghanistan and the garden designers from Kashmir.
The carvings of Taj Mahal were decorated with very precious gemstones.
Taj Mahal is an evidence that how the emotions and feelings are important to human life. 
The story of Taj Mahal is an example of devotion and faith.
The story of Taj Mahal is a love story not found in papers but stands in the structural form.
The ceiling of the verandah is painted with trees, birds, beast and geometric design.
The doorway shows a row of eight Buddhas surrounded by female guardians, river gooses, and scrollwork and lotus petals.
One of the most perfectly executed rock cut Chaityas with elaborately carved interiors.
On the left wall is a fragment of a painting showing the Buddha preaching to the congregation?
Above the side shrines of the verandah are carved Hariti, the goddess of prosperity, and her attendants to the right, and a court of Naga, the serpent king to the left Excavated at a higher level, this small monastery with a narrow verandah has four unfinished cells.
On the right wall of the shrine are painted the seven Manushi Buddhas with Maitreya, under their respective Bodhi Trees.
The interior of this Chaitya Hall is decorated with carved Buddha figures.
The focal Stupa has an image of the Master seated in a pavilion.
The two narrative scenes on the left wall show the temptation by Mara, the god of passion, and a colossal carved figure of the reclining Buddha, depicting his ultimate salvation from the cycle of rebirth the Mahaparinirvana.
The ancient artists of Ajanta covered the rough walls with a layer of mud and cow dung, mixed with straw or animal hair as a binding medium.
The paintings in the Ajanta caves are often mistakenly referred to as frescoes.
A fresco refers to the application of colors to moist lime plaster.
At Ajanta, the paintings were done on dry wall.
According to an ingenious theory, the depression in the floor of the main chambers, a feature of all caves, was filled with water, which caught the few rays that did reach into the darkness.
Another amazing fact about the paintings of Ajanta is that they were done in extremely poor light in the caves.