Though devotees visit these temples through the year, during the navratras devotees come from near and far, during the festivals there are special bus services to these temples.
Bangla Sahib Gurudwara - A magnificent and spacious bungalow in Delhi owned by Raja Jai Singh Amber (Jaipur) who commanded great respect and honor in the court of Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb now enjoys the status of a holy shrine called Gurdwara Bangla Sahib. 
The eighth Guru Sri Harkishan had stayed here for a few months as guest of Raja Jai Singh.
 Since then it has become a place of pilgrimage for both, Hindus and Sikhs. 
They pay their respect to the memory of Guru Harkrishan, nominated as successor by the seventh Guru, Sri Har Rai. 
He passed away on October 6, 1661 A.D. When only a little over five year old, he had been tried and tested as a perfect fearless and fully illuminated soul.  
Near the Police Station, Chandini Chowk the beautiful golden domes of the Gurudwara Sisgunj immediately strike your eye.
 It commemorates the site of the ninth guru of the Sikhs, Guru Teg Bahadur's martyrdom. 
The Guru was beheaded by Aurangzeb 1675. 
The gurudwara has been extended from time to time and it tough to tell apart the original structure anymore.
 Though Delhi is fast being converted into a concrete jungle, the Delhi Development Authority is trying best to provide the residents of Delhi with some greenery by construction of parks and gardens.
 The DDA has also installed some musical fountains at specific locations which are worth visiting. 
The Mughal Garden is located in the premises of the President house but this garden is not opened to public viewing.
During the spring seasons of February and March, when the garden is in full bloom people are allowed inside. 
This garden has some exotic and rare flower plants. 
The dwarf orange trees and numerous rose plants are special attraction in the garden, the fountains add to the beauty of the place.
National Rose Garden is situated in the Chanakya Puri area of the capital. 
This garden has some of the rare and imported rose variety. 
The best season to visit this garden is during December / January when the flowers are in full bloom.
Lodhi GardensLodhi Garden - Adjoining the India International Center is the Garden, around the tombs of Sayid and Lodhi rulers. 
This garden is very well planned and has artificial streams.
 The Tombs of the rulers adorn the architectural style which was latter used in the construction of Taj Mahal.
The Delhi Zoo is located near the Purana Qila on the Delhi-Mathura road. 
Delhi Zoo has many animals which includes the rare and exotic white tigers. 
This place is particularly popular among the children.
National Rail Museum is located In Chanakya Puri.
 National Rail Museum is unique in its collection of rail engines and locomotives. 
India was among the countries which had railway lines since 19th century. 
The locomotives in the museums are displayed in open. 
But they also have a small in house museum which gives the details of the progress and development in the history of railway in India.
Located on Janpath, National museum is one of the treasure houses of our glorious past. 
The museum has a large collection of excavated items many of which date back to 2nd and 3rd century B.C. 
The museum has separate section for the Harrapa (Indus valley civilization) collection. 
Recently the museum added a very interesting section of Jewellery collection. 
Apart from the regular sections the museum has regular exhibition on different themes. 
Information about any such exhibition can be obtained from the museum itself or from the tourist offices.
 A daily film show is organized in the auditorium of the museum and it is closed on Monday. 
Museum of Natural History gives an over all look of the evolution of Earth and its natural history. 
The museum is located on the Barakhamba Road and is closed on Mondays.
Nehru Museum & Planetarium - The Teen Murti house was the residence of India's first Prime minister Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru. 
After his death the house was converted into a memorial. 
The Nehru memorial has a collection of gifts and many other items which he possessed.
Nehru Planetarium is within the compound of Teen Murti. 
This planetarium gives a overview of the Indian Space program. 
There are daily film shows which are screened in a specially designed auditorium. 
These films are meant to give information about the Universe or any other topic related to that. 
The Capsule in which Rakesh Sharma went into space is also kept here.
Crafts Museum is at Pragati Maidan Grounds and it open from 10am-5pm daily.
Gandhi Darshan & Gandhi National Museum Gandhi Darshan & Gandhi National Museum is across Rajghat and Gandhi Smriti is on Tees January Marg.
Dara Shikoh Library is an archaeological museum in Civil Lines and is open from 10am - 5pm, Monday to Friday.
A unique museum of Dolls is located near the ITO crossing on the Bahadur Shah Jafar Marg.
 These dolls are collected from different parts of India as well as from other countries of the world. These dolls reflect the tradition and culture of the region from where they come.
 Children Book Trust of India is in the same building. 
This is an organization which is committed to provide quality books for the little ones.
National Science center is located near Pragati Maidan. 
This center is famous for the models which can be operated by the visitor himself. 
Children are particularly fascinated by the mysteries of science. 
Open through out the week except on Mondays.
Visit Sundernagar and the adjoining Balh Valley, Rewalsar lake and apple orchards of Karsog.
Delhi is in turn connected with Calcutta, by Indian Airlines flights. 
Shimla is connected by a narrow guage railway line with Kalka 90 kms, which in turn is connected with the major cities in India. 
Regular bus services connect Shimla with Chandigarh 117 kms, Kullu 220 kms, Manali 260 kms, Delhi 343 kms, Mandi 150 kms, Pathankot 380 kms, Ambala 151 kms, Chail 43 kms, Dehradun 240 kms etc.
Shimla, the summer capital of the British India, is situated at a height of 2,196 meters.
Today, its well developed facilities, easy accessibility and many attractions make it one of India's most popular hill resorts in the Himalayan lower ranges.
Shimla is surrounded by pine, cedar, oak and rhododendron forests.
You can go shopping on the fashionable Mall, visit its neo-Gothic churches, the grand former Vice-regal Lodge or the cemeteries.
Places to see around Shimla include- Mashobra. Bekhaltv road, camp sites and the Golf Course at Naldehra, Tattapani, the Shiv-Parvati Caves, The Kufri Slopes, etc.
Shimla Airport is 23 kms from the city and is served by Indian Airlines flights during the summer months.
The nearest mainline station for Shimla is at Kalka, 95 kms away, from here, there is a picturesque toy train upto Shimla four times daily.
The state of Jammu and Kashmir is a region of widely varying people and geography.
In the south, Jammu is a transition zone from the Indian plains to the Himalayas.
Correctly, the rest of the state is Kashmir but in practice this title is reserved for the beautiful vale of Kashmir, a large Himalayan valley in the north of the state.
A spell on a houseboat on Dal Lake has always been one of India's real treats and Kashmir also offers some delightful trekking opportunities and unsurpassed scenery.
Srinagar is the capital city of Jammu and Kashmir and one of the most popular hill stations.
Dal Lake is a scenic picnic spot surrounded by forests of pine; it is a good base for trekkers.
Visit the Mughal Gardens, the Chashme Shahi  (Royal Spring), Nishat Bagh(Pleasure Garden) and Shalimar Bagh(The Abode of Love). 
Shikara is a Gondola type light rowing boat.
The two hour boat ride takes tourists on a relaxing sightseeing tour of interior parts of the calm and placid waters of Dal Lake, to see the market and the floating Gardens.
Sonmarg is 80 km north-east of Srinagar and at an altitude of 2743 m.
Popularly known as the 'Meadow of Gold' this place is strewn with the loveliest of alpine flowers and surrounded by mountains mantled in fir and pine.
Glaciers pour down from the Himalayas almost on to the site of camping at Sonamarg.
Gulmarg boasts of the highest Golf Course in the world.
If the weather is clear, one can have a spectacular view of the towering mountains including Nanga Parbat (26624 ft.) and other peaks and also a panoramic view of the Kashmir Valley.
Pahalgam is 98 kms from Srinagar and enroute one can visit the impressive ruin of stone temple of Martund built by King Avanti Varman between AD 855 and 933 and dedicated to Vishnu, one of the gods of the Hindu trinity.
The next stop is Mattan Temple, a small Lingam (Shiva Symbol) stands in the sparkling spring. Also visit Achbal Gardens.
Wular Lake is the largest fresh water lake in Asia and measures 24 kms across and surrounded by towering mountains.
The jade green water of the Wular Lake swirl gently around a curious bubbling spring in the middle of the lake.
There is a small picturesque island that was once the pleasure resort of a great king of Kashmir, Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin.
Yusmarg is a small meadow set in the heart of mountains to the south-west of Srinagar, at a distance of 47 km.
Yusmarg is an ideal picnic spot and the Nilnag Lake can be visited from here. 
One can also see the Hari Parbat Fort, Jama Masjid, walk in the old bazaar and over one of the seven old Bridges on river Jhelum and view from outside, the shrine in honor of Shah Hamdan. 
Dachigam was at one time the exclusive hunting preserve of the Maharaja of Kashmir.
Dachigam contains the last viable hangul population, related to the red deer of Europe, with a white rump patch and impressive spread of antlers.
There are some 20 other mammal species including the snow leopard and over 150 species of fauna.
Walk to the Shankar Gompa which has innumerable statues of pure gold and a number of interesting paintings.
Drive to the Spituk Monastery (5 miles) which contains a large collection of Tankhyas and old masks and later visit the Shankar Gompa.
70 Km from Leh on banks of the Indus is Alchi Gompa dating a thousand years back.
One of its walls features thousands of miniature-sized pictures of the Buddha.
Three large sized images made of clay and painted brightly are its focal attraction.
40 kms from Leh, Hemis is one of the richest, biggest and most famous gompa in Ladakh.