Travel Documents All visitors to India are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months.
Visas are mandatory but exemptions include 1) Bhutanese and Nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months, 2) Nationals from the Maldives, if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days (this includes any periods they may have spent in India up to 6 months prior to the visit in question), 3) Transit passengers who have a follow on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport.
Special restrictions apply to Pakistani and Afghan nationals.
Destination guide and tourist information on Andaman & Nicobar Islands, beaches, water sports, fort & jail.
Then head to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, tranquil islands of peace and quiet, islands where even the government assists the holiday maker to relax by restricting frenetic sightseeing to a few hours of the day.
The beaches, museums, forts and jail on the Andaman Island are some of the circuits you will do at a leisurely pace once you are here.
Andaman Islands played an important role in India's freedom movement with many a freedom fighter sentenced to prison terms at the Cellular Jail.
The Nicobar Islands fortunately do not share the history but are equally blessed in terms of natural beauty.
The sunset and sunrise are breathtaking every single day.
Andhra Pradesh is above all a cheerful mix of many things nice.
It has one of the most important Hindu temples in the world and yet Urdu is as widely spoken and appreciated as the more indigenous Telugu.
Hyderabadi cuisine is all Nizami delicately flavored and predominantly non vegetarian, while the rest of Andhra Pradesh relishes a variety of vegetarian dishes.
The spice also includes liberal doses of Buddhist heritage peppered across the state, like the ruined stupa of Amaravathi.
This large state is becoming increasingly important to India in the techno savvy age of cyber optics and virtual reality.
Driven by a dynamic government, Andhra Pradesh has taken strides towards development and is today much better off than it was 10 years ago.
Not many tourists take the time to discover the treasures of Andhra Pradesh, daunted by its size and the fact that the major attractions are spread across squares of miles of tough terrain. 
But, if you chose carefully, Andhra Pradesh is as rewarding a destination as its more popular neighbours, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka.
Arunachal Pradesh means the "land of the dawn lit mountains" and lives up to its name.
Pine forested mountains echoing with the sound of the gurgling streams rushing down slopes does this sound like fairy tale land? 
Add to that an amazing array of flora and fauna, in a unique habitat with glaciers, high altitude meadows and subtropical forests.
Myriad tribes who still preserve their own identities, cultures, traditions and lifestyles inhabit this state.
An interesting fact of the tribal villages here is that materialism just does not exist.
The simplicity of the tribal people and the untamed profusion of nature make you feel like you are in a time warp.
The gateway to the northeast, Assam is wedged into a green valley with the Himalayan foothills in the north and the state of Meghalaya in the south.
With the mighty Brahmaputra River raging through it, Assam is one of the most fertile states in India spread over 800kms of lush forests and paddy fields.
Best known for its terraced tea gardens that produce some of the world’s finest tea and the one horned rhino that roams free in the Kaziranga Park, Assam also boasts of numerous golf courses dotting the many tea estates.
Until recently, Assam was out of bounds for the traveler.
Militants had rebelled against the rule of law and believed they were fighting to protect the interests of the original inhabitants of the state.
Much chaos and confusion ensued until a peace accord was signed with the government.
Upper Assam is still racked by the militant Bodo Movement demanding autonomy for the tribal Bodos.
By Air Aurangabad airport is 10 km east of the city and is connected by daily flights to Mumbai and Delhi via Udaipur and Jaipur.
Taxis and auto rickshaws are available outside the airport or you could have a rented car meet you on arrival.
By Train Aurangabad is not located on the main route but some trains do stop here.
However, Manmad, 113km northwest of Aurangabad is the closest junction for major trains from across the country.
There are two direct trains to/from Mumbai as well as a daily train to Hyderabad in neighboring Andhra Pradesh.
Other direct connections are to Delhi (1395 km) and one, every five days to Amritsar via Delhi.
Local trains, taxis and buses connect the two places.
By Road You can easily drive in as Aurangabad is well connected by road to the towns and cities around it.
State Roadways buses and private bus companies connect Aurangabad from Pune (5 hours), Nashik (5 hours) Indore.
Overnight luxury buses connect Aurangabad from Mumbai (12 hours) via Pune or Manmad.
Ellora is connected by regular bus service to Aurangabad, the trip takes around 45 minutes.
There are four morning buses to Ajanta (3 hours) and an hourly bus service to the town of Jalgaon via Ajanta.
The main taxi stand is near the bus stand from where one can hire taxis to Ellora and the fortress of Daulatabad.
There are a number of ways to get around the city.
Auto rickshaws are the all time favorites as their drivers often double as local guides.
Car with drivers can be rented from car rental companies, or through travel agents and hotels.
They will also arrange for a tourist guide from the tourist office for you.
Ellora is connected by regular bus service to Aurangabad the trip takes around 45 minutes.
The caves of Ajanta are further away (3hrs); four buses leave each morning for the caves.
An hourly bus service is available from Aurangabad to the nearby town of Jalgaon via Ajanta.
The main taxi stand is near the bus stand from where one can hire taxis to Ellora and the fortress of Daulatabad.
The Government of India (ITDC) Tourist Office is at Krishna Vilas Station Road , Aurangabad and the MTDC tourist office is at Station Road  Aurangabad .
This city can be visited anytime of the year but the best time to travel in and around Aurangabad is between October and March, when winter temperatures make the days pleasant, perfect for sightseeing.
A wide variety of hotel accommodation is available, ranging from deluxe hotels with all the conveniences including conference and business facilities to reasonably priced standard hotels to low budget establishments with few frills but tolerable rooms and bathrooms .
A number of hotels are located near the bus stand and the railway station; Station Road (west) is inexpensive while Station Road (east) has the more up market accommodation.
For top of the line five star hotels, you have to drive a few kilo meters further away.
Pack in light woolens for the winter months and cool cotton clothes for summer; hats and shades for the hot sunny days; a first aid kit consisting of basic medicines and prescription drugs.
Aurangabad has plenty of well stocked shops and malls that will supply all requirements for toiletries, cosmetics, medicines and sundries like camera films etc.
Aurangabad offers a wide choice of dining options from the in house restaurants with extensive a la carte selections to vegetarian Gujarati, hearty North Indian and rich Muslim cuisine in the city’s many restaurants and cafes.
There are plenty of bars; both in the hotels and in the licensed permit rooms.
Street food, an ever popular option in India is available in and around every market place and outside the Aurangabad city bus and railway stations; it is cheap and tasty but not always very hygienic.
Entertainment options are few and far between and usually restricted to an evening at the bar or the odd cultural performances put up during the festive season or peak tourist time.
Cinema houses are ubiquitous, some air conditioned, others not but all screen Hindi and Marathi films and Hollywood hits.
Shop in the markets of the old city for everything from antiques and bric-a-brac to fine silks and cotton textiles.
Aurangabad is famous for a variety of beautiful textiles perfected by craftsmen and weavers down centuries.
Good buys would include shawls and stoles of Kimkhab, a fabric made by blending local silk with gold thread. 
Shawls, scarves, stoles and bedspreads of Himroo can be bought near Zafar Gate in Mondhard district or visit a factory to see the actual creative process.
Another specialty of the region is the exquisite Paithani saris also made of silk and gold threads.
Bidriware uses black gunmetal etched with Islamic designs in gold to create boxes, hookahs, samovars, wine jars and glasses; jewellery and mementoes made of agate, amethysts and crystal found locally is another of the crafts Aurangabad is famous for.
There are a number of important tourist spots beyond the city limits of Aurangabad the Buddhist Caves at Ajanta, the rock temples of Ellora, the caves at Pithalkhora, the fortress of Daulatabad, .
Without a doubt, the rock cut monuments at Ajanta and Ellora are the prime attraction for people visiting Aurangabad.
Both these architectural marvels figure on the World Heritage list.
Ajanta lies 99 km northeast, about two hours away by road, while Ellora is much closer, just 30 km to the northwest.
Both places have dining and boarding facilities for overnight stops.
Ajanta A party of British officers discovered this group of 30 caves hidden behind dense undergrowth and excavated out of a steep horseshoe shaped gorge. 
The caves were chiselled out by Buddhist monks between 200 BC and 650 AD as chaityas (prayer halls) and viharas (monasteries), and contain exquisite frescoes and fine sculptures.
Each cave has its own story to tell.
So go there and discover them for yourself and before leaving, do go to the viewpoint on the flat topped hill opposite the caves for an amazing view of the whole group and the gorge.
The architecture and the carvings of the 34 monolithic cave temples are truly awesome and breathtaking in their grand scale and design.
The temples here are from a later period than those at Ajanta (350 AD to 1000 AD), and include Hindu and Jain monuments as well.
The most incredible feature is that they were chiseled top downwards from a 2 km sheer rock escarpment.
Pride of place here goes to the gigantic Kailasa Temple, the world’s largest monolithic sculpture, which required hours of diligent chiseling, sculpting and carving and scooping out of an estimated 200,000 tons of basalt rock, with absolutely no margin for error! 
A short distance from Ellora is the Grishneshwar temple, one of the five jyotirlingas in Maharashtra, and an important pilgrim centre for Hindus.
Do take time out to go to Daulatabad, 13 km from Aurangabad (reroute to Ellora), to see the awe inspiring fort perched on the top of an insurmountable 200 meter rock hillock.
Dating back to the 9th centuries when it was known as Deogiri, the fort has a chequered history, having been under the control of the Yadavas, Delhi Sultans, Mughals and finally the Marathas.
The fortress is remembered mostly for Muhammed bin Tughlaks abortive attempt to shift his capital from Delhi to Daulatabad in the early 14th century.
The fort is worth seeing for its elaborate and superb multi level defenses, as well as the excellent views of the surrounding countryside from the top.
Some 22 km from Aurangabad is a small walled town, Khuldabad .
The Dargah of Sayeed Burhanuddin is believed to be a repository of hair from the Prophets Beard, which increases in numbers over a period of time.
Several historical figures lie buried here, including the last great Mughal Emperor, Aurangzeb.
The emperor’s simple plastered masonry tomb is located next to the Dargah of the Sufi saint and is remarkable in its austerity the simplicity reflects the life of the emperor.
On display on the 12th day of the Rabiulawwal month of the Islamic calendar (usually November) is the Robe of the Prophet, the most prized prossession of the Dargah.
On special holy days qawwalis (devotional songs) are performed in the Nakkar Khana.
The Hindu pilgrim city, Paithan  lies on the banks of the Godavari, 56 km south of Aurangabad.
It is famous for its beautiful Paithani silk saris, adorned with intricate zari (gold embroidered) borders.
They take master weavers aeons to make, cost the earth but are treasured heirlooms and sheer poetry in silk.
The climate of Aurangabad is temperate with moderate winters in the months of November-February and hot summers from April through to June.
This southwestern monsoon arrives here by end June September and the city receives a moderate amount of rainfall though the surrounding region varies from arid to semi arid to fertile.
Named for Aurangzeb, the last of the great Mughal Emperors, Aurangabad acquired plenty of monuments and a rich culture as its heritage from the middle ages.
The one single factor that determined Aurangabad's role in the history of medieval India is its location.