Formerly known as the Sandalwood Island, Sumba is now famous for its horses and an excellent style of ikat cloth.
Although some exist in East Sumba, it is in West Sumba that there are a number of enormous megalithic tombs and traditional thatched and peaked huts raised on stilts.
In Samba incredible rituals take place, such as 'Pasola' where hundreds of horsemen fling spreads at each other in an annual ritual.
Many traditional ceremonies, all with a component paying homage to the spirits, take place from July to October including the traditional houses and burials when sometimes hundreds of pigs, water buffaloes, horses, and dogs are scarified.
Other ceremonies include 'Pajura' or traditional boxing, festivals for the Lunar New Year in October and November, horse races and ritual dances.
East Nusa Tenggara is one of the four provinces in the Nusa Tenggara (Southeast Islands).
East Nusa Tenggara stretch is between 118° and 125° east longitude, and between 1 18° and 125°southern latitude lines, and between 8° and 12 ° southern latitude lines.
The territory of East Nusa Tenggara Province comprises 566 islands out of those all; three main islands are Flores, Sumba, and Timor from which come the term FLOBAMOR, which has been familiar as one of the names of East Nusa Tenggara
Flores is the main volcanic island and has many unique and spectacular attractions, one of these are Mount Kelimutu with its lakes of distinct color variation, has become one of the fabled destinations travelers.
Sumba is the island famous for its arts, handicrafts, particularly the textile weaving, and cultural assets. The other name given to East Nusa Tenggara is "Nusa Cendana" the Sandalwood Island.
Geologically, East Nusa Tenggara can be regarded as being divided into two zones: first, the volcanic inner curve formed by the islands Rinca, Komodo, Flores, Alor, Pantar, Adonara, Lembata and Solor, which have fertile soils and second, the out curve with limestone and rock formation, made up of the island Sumba, Sabu, Rote, Semau, and Timor.
The most populated is Manggarai regency (621,989 people) and Kupang city is the most densely populated (1,517.30 people per square kilometer).
Due to central highlands and their closeness to Australia, the seasons are irregular.
Generally the islands are semi-arid, with a longer dry season lasting from March to November.
The wet season lasts from December to March, but can be considerably shorter and small island of Savu.
The average rainfall of this region is between 36 - 4,127 mm/year. The temperature is range from 20.3 C to 31.7 C.
East Nusa Tenggara is mountainous, and very steep slopes are everywhere besides some not too wide plateaus or uplands.
Despite of the situation, most part of this region is not fertile, since the rainfall varies between 500 mm and 2000 mm a year.
The area of East Nusa Tenggara occupies an area of 49,879.98 square kilometers, and has a population of more than 3,500.000.
There are a lot of languages spoken in East Nusa Tenggara coming from as many different which groups of the population.
Bahasa Indonesia is the national language in Malay, written in Roman script and based in European orthography.
In all tourist destination areas English is the number one foreign language fairly spoken and written.
Like an old city in Gorontalo Province that build on 19 March 1728 (municipality, 20 Mays 1960) broadly 64,79 ha and on 0 - 500 m sea level temperature 250 C, make this town as important place in Tomini Bay with Manado with its Bunaken Island in north and Palu with its Togian Island in south side, the location of town with number of residents 200 men which 85 % is Moslem, as strategic purpose.
Gorontalo is known "Culture City" which able to be seen through the variety tradition, dance, music, and it legend.
The friendly people apply Gorontalo language and Indonesia in their habitually, also famous with souvenir “Krawang Embroidery".
Journey to and from Gorontalo is easy: through diffraction land line apply transportation with bus, through sea line can be served two passenger ships like KM TILONGKABILA and direct ferry ship in port Gorontalo, through air line can apply Bouraq and Merpati Airlines to Jalaludin Gorontalo Airlines only 20 minutes from the downtown.
Supermarket and market, dispensary, photograph studio, souvenir shop, bank, hotel, travel agent and restaurant offering Bithebiluhuta traditional foods, make the ex town that mastered by Dutch and only 15 minutes to Bogani Nani Wartabone National Park, as fascination tourism objects.
Otanaha Fortress as omission object of 14century located in the beautiful lake, and the contour relation of lake and mountain make Gorontalo nature is completely fascination. With the friendly, we greet the visitors.
Maluku (Moluccas), a region of Indonesia formerly known as the Spice Islands, was once the source of cloves and nutmeg, spices highly valued for their aroma, preservative ability, and use in medicine before people learned how to cultivate the plants in other parts of the world.
Maluku is a cluster of about one thousand islands totaling 74,504 square kilometers, forming part of the Malay Archipelago in eastern Indonesia near New Guinea.
The region is divided into two provinces, Maluku with its capital in Ambon, and North Maluku (2002 estimated population 913,000), with its capital in Ternate; other important islands in the group include Halmahera, Seram, and Buru.
The average population density figure is 19 people per-square kilometer, but the distribution is uneven.
Air and sea transportation is the main means, which link the islands together.
The province has 32 seaports and 20 airports, and only about 160 km of roads. However, good roads on many of the islands provide easy access to the often-remote places of tourists' interest.
Maluku lies in the transition zone between Asiatic and Australian flora and fauna and has a tropical climate.
Maluku's flora includes meranti trees and many kinds of orchids; distinctive fauna includes cuscuses, birds of paradise, wild goats, and parrots.
The economy is based on subsistence agriculture, especially sago (the sago palm, producing a starch used in food), and on the export of such products as spices, cacao, coffee, coconuts, fish, and minerals. Important indigenous groups include the Ambonese.
A great variety of endemic plant and animal species are found in the rugged forest-covered and mountainous hinterlands of most of the islands.
A few of the best known are the Rucker-tailed kingfisher, the red-crested Moluccan cockatoo, and various brilliantly colored lorikeets and parrots.
Maluku province with its capital Ambon, stay at 30 north latitudes 8,300 south latitudes and 1250 - 1350 east longitudes with the area boundaries: North side: North Maluku Province,South side: Timor Leste and Australia,West Side: Southeast Sulawesi and Central Sulawesi,East Side: Irian Jaya Province
Maluku province consists of mountains, islands that spread from west to east and form north to south among 1150 km.
Maluku has 2 seasons, that is: west season or north, and southeast or east  the west season in Maluku is come from December until March, while April is transition season to southeast season
Southeast season is average 6 months begin from May and end on October while the transition to West season is on November.
The homogenate seasons are give different affect to the land and its sea in this region and the temperature is about 26,2 C (in Southeast Maluku especially in rainy).
North Sulawesi Province is agricultural land that is chockablock trees, such as; coconut palm, clove and nutmeg. Manado, North Sulawesi capital is really busy city.
Do a journey to beach, South Manado to Tasik Ria beach and to Tanawanko, then leave the hinterland through Taratara to plateau town Tomohon.
Hilltop area have yield of fruits, vegetable, and the flower line, which is wide such as, trumpet flower, Bougainville, lily, gladiola flower, angelic and chrysene flower.
The beautifully Inspirasi hill give town view with mount as the background.
About 36 southwestern km is Manado city, the beauty of Tondano Lake has waited.
Around the lake there are a lot of restaurant providing delicious burning fish.
From the simple cottages until interesting cottages that built from odd hardwood, you will wish to spend some nights in cold climate.
North Sulawesi Provincial Capital, Manado is initial boundary to explore Minahasa area, which is powerful drawn.
Full of cheers and affection, Minahasa people live in natty wooden house framework, with fence and Flower Park, give the impression that Manado like Europe.
There are a lot of hotels and restaurants in Manado, which must be tried with hot cookery taste goal Minahasa.
In Manado there are many shops and markets with goods consumer and agricultural produce, while every stripper building, in a flash seen like emerald hill and blue sea.
Manado outbacko, the journey through Minahasa plateau will give you are eagerness to know about the places history of funeral, mount volcano, source of temperature wellspring, Tondano Lake plateau and awful scenery in fertile mountain, coffee plantation and coconut, orchid garden and rice field check stepped aside the hill.
From Manado you can visit Dua Saudara Preserve, which is birdhouse and other typical animals in Sulawesi, like 'Tarsier'.
Minahasa Region wide is about 1922,55 km2 with number of residents 441671 men (based on resident census in 2000). The capital of Minahasa region is Tondano, which located in plateau 700 m to sea level, encircled by magnificent hinterland with cold mountainous climate.
At XV century, before Spain nation had arrived, a decision being taken by 7 tribe heads about division of each tribe / clump in Watu Pinabetengan.
Minahasa word means merger from various tribes that taken away from word 'esa' or 'one', therefore its region named Minahasa.
Orchestra bamboo applies castanets that made from bamboo (exclusive bamboo), sometimes made of bronze (bamboo clarinet) or tin (bamboo zinc).
Kolintang is looks like Xylophone (xylophone which made from wooden) and famous in all of countries.
Music Bia, quad scallop-shell is other castanets that less popular, but still applied in some places in North Sulawesi.
Maengket is common name for dance traditional drama that used in some places in Minahasa.
Makamberu: a dance that is describing / depicts when it crop and some choreographies remind at poem / love rhyme.
North Maluku is a province of Indonesia which covers the northern part of Maluku Islands, which are split between it and Maluku Province.
The planned provincial is Sofifi, on Halmahera, but the current capital and largest population is Ternate Island.
In the sixteenth and seventeenth century, the islands of North Maluku were the original "Spice Islands".
The Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish, and local kingdoms including Ternate and Tidore fought each other for control of the lucrative trade in these spices.
Nutmeg trees have since been transported and replanted all around the world and the demand for nutmeg from the original spice islands has ceased, greatly reducing North Maluku's international importance.
North Maluku is in a transition zone between the Asian and Australian fauna and flora, and also between the Malay-based cultures of western Indonesia and those of Melanesia.
A great variety of endemic plant and animal species are found in the rugged forest-covered and mountainous hinterlands of most of the North Maluku islands.
North Maluku sits astride one of the world's most volatile volcanic belts actually this region is known for more than 70 eruptions in the last 400 years.
Papua is one of Indonesia province comprising a majority part of the western half of New Guinea Island and nearby.
A few of the best known are the Rucker-tailed Kingfisher, the Red-crested Moluccan Cockatoo and various brilliantly colored lorikeets and parrots.
Papua originally covered the entire western half of New Guinea, but in 2003, the western portion of the province, on the Bird's Head Peninsula, was declared in Jakarta as separate province named West Irian Jaya.
Papua is the official Indonesian and internationally recognized name for the province.
The province was known as West Irian or Irian Barat from 1969 to 1973, and then renamed Irian Jaya ("Victorious Irian") by Soeharto.
This was the official name until Papua was adopted in 2002. Today, natives of this province prefer to call themselves Papuans rather than Irianese.
The name West Papua is used among Papuan separatists and usually refers to the whole of the Indonesian portion of New Guinea.
The main industries include copper (with the largest concentration of copper in the world at Tembagapura), palm oil, copra, maize, groundnuts, pepper, tuna, gold, oil, coal, and phosphates.
Papua is mostly a mountainous and forested region, with the Maoke Mountain range rising to 5,029-m/16,499 ft at Jaya Peak.
The province declared independence from Indonesia, as West Papua, in June 2000.
Mamberamo River sometimes referred to the "Amazon of Papua" is the province's largest river, which winds through the northern part of the Papua.
The famous Baliem Valley, home of the Dani people is a tableland 1600 m above sea level in the midst of the central mountain range; Jaya Peak, sometimes known by its former Dutch name Carstensz Pyramid, is a mist covered limestone mountain peak 5030 m above sea level.
South Sulawesi province comprises the narrow southwestern peninsula of this orchid-shaped island, which is mainly mountainous.
The seafaring Bugis dominant the southern tip, whereas the northern part of South Sulawesi is inhabited by the Torajas whose unique culture rivals that of the Balinese.
Famed for their seafaring heritage and Pinisi schooners for centuries, the Bugis possess to the present day one of the last sailing fleets in the world.
The Bugis vessels have sailed as far as the Australian beach, leaving behind drawings of their ships on stone with words that have been integrated into the Aboriginal language of north Australia.
Situated on the crossroads of well-traveled sea-lanes, South Sulawesi’s capital and chief trading port of Ujung Pandang, till today the gateway to eastern Indonesia.
Spanish and Portuguese galleons, followed by British and Dutch traders sailed these seas in search of the spice trade, escorted by their men of war to protect them against the daring raids of the Bugis and Makassar who attacked the intruders.
Ujung Pandang, was formerly Makassar, well known for its Makasar oil from which the English word "antimacassar" evolved for small covers to protect upholstery.
Gowa's most famous king is considered a national hero, named Sultan Hasanuddin, the 16th king of Gowa who waged a long and fierce war against the colonial forces.
The Tomanurung stone with the inscriptions can still be seen in a plot neighboring the royal graves, near Sungguminasa, formerly the seat of the Gowa kings.
The Bugis kingdom of Bone, Wajo and Soppeng and the Makassarase kingdom of Gowa emerged in 13th century.
Though interrelated through marriage, Bone and Gowa have for centuries battled against each other.
An ethnic group who believes that their forefathers descended from heaven onto a mountain some twenty generations ago, the Torajas have a unique culture based on animistic beliefs.
Known for their grand burial ceremonies on cliffs or hanging graves, Torajas practice an ancestral cult even today where death and afterlife ceremonies are great feasts when buffaloes are sacrificed in the final death ceremony, after which the deceased's remains are placed in a coffin and interred in caves hollowed out in high cliffs.
Lifelike statues, looking out from a “balcony”, guard the mouth of the cave.
As death has such an "important meaning" when the souls are released, burials are elaborate and follow feasting days.