The first half of the nineteenth century was marked by the Industrial Revolution in Europe, in which the expanding science of metallurgy played a primary role.
Cast iron made its debut in the construction industry in 1779 with the bridge at Coalbrookdale in England, followed in 1803 by the Pont des Arts bridge in Paris.
Metal structures soon began to find their way into textile factories, into stage construction and glasshouses.
By around 1845 laminated iron was taking over as a more efficient and economic material than cast iron, heralding a spectacular rejuvenation in the conception of buildings.
The central market building in Paris, Les Halles, was erected in 1853 by Victor Baltard and Felix Callet.
It was the first building in France to openly display its metalwork.
The use of iron in architecture spread widely, and became one of the most original and spectacular forms of creative expression of the nineteenth century, because of its lightness, its transparency and the elegant way it rises into the air, coupled with its brute strength, its restrained power and its extreme tautness.
By the year 1885, the time when the Tower was being constructed, the use of iron and steel in bridges and building frameworks had become widespread.
The engineer, and his expertise in calculation and construction, came to have an increasingly important role in architecture.
The bridge over the Firth of Forth in Scotland, opened in 1889, achieved a record span of 521 meters.
There was even talk of a bridge with a span wide enough to cross the English Channel.
In Chicago in the United States, steel started to be employed to erect buildings of enormous height.
An engineer by training, Eiffel founded and developed a company specializing in metal structural work, whose crowning achievement was the Eiffel Tower.
He devoted the last thirty years of his life to his experimental research.
Born in Dijon in 1832, he graduated from the Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures in 1855, the same year that Paris hosted the first world's Fair.
He spent several years in the South West of France, where he supervised work on the great railway bridge in Bordeaux, and afterwards he set up in his own right in 1864 as a "constructor", that is, as a business specializing in metal structural work.
His outstanding career as a constructor was marked by work on the Porto viaduct over the river Douro in 1876, the Garabit viaduct in 1884, Pest railway station in Hungary, the dome of the Nice observatory, and the ingenious structure of the Statue of Liberty.
It culminated in 1889 with the Eiffel Tower.
After the end of his career in business, marred by the failure of the Panama Canal, Eiffel began an active life of scientific experimental research in the fields of meteorology, radiotelegraphy and aerodynamics.
Eiffel built hundreds of metal structures of all kinds all around the world.
Bridges, and in particular railway bridges, were his favorite field of work, but he also won renown for his metal structural work and industrial installations.
His career was marked by a large number of fine buildings, among which two of the most outstanding are the twin edifices of the Porto viaduct and the Garabit viaduct in the Cantal region of France.
Equally outstanding are certain other structures in which the pure inventiveness of Eiffel's company was allowed free rein, such as the "portable" bridges sold around the world in "kits", the ingenious structure of the Statue of Liberty in New York, and of course the Eiffel Tower itself.
In 1887 Eiffel agreed to build the locks of the Panama canal, an immense undertaking badly managed by Ferdinand De Lesseps, which ended in the biggest financial scandal of the century.
This was the biggest contract in his entire career in business, and also the one with the greatest risk.
Given the risk he faced, he was granted major financial advantages and solid guarantees, which allowed him to collect his profit as soon as the work was begun.
Despite the care which Eiffel took in the project, the liquidation of the canal construction company, Compagnie du Canal, on February 4 1889, led to his own indictment for fraud alongside De Lesseps and his son, and to a sentence of two years in prison and a fine of 2000 francs, even though nothing could really be blamed on him personally.
With his honor and dignity severely compromised, he withdrew from business.
The ruling was later to be annulled by the highest appeal court, the Cour de Cassation, liberating him of all obligations concerning the accusations, which put an end to any further court action against him.
In retirement following the Panama scandal, Eiffel devoted the final thirty years of his life to a fruitful career as a scientist.
First of all he set himself to finding a practical application for the Tower, which had only been built to stand for twenty years.
He collected meteorological data at posts installed in his various properties, and at the same time pursued his research into aerodynamics, building a wind tunnel right at the foot of the Tower, and then a second and much larger one on Rue Bouding a television mast whose peak is at a height of 324 meters.
The first television trials to use the Tower date back to 1921, and the first regular broadcasts started in 1935.
In 1889 the tower was a colossal fairground attraction, but during the 1920s it became a symbol of modernity and the avant-garde, inspiring poets such as Guillaume Apollinaire, film-makers, photographers and numerous painters.
Its effect was a burst of almost ethereal clarity, of the kind only metal creates, piercing the architectural landscape of Paris.
Its honesty and plainness of appearance intensified the artistic debate that had been opened thirty years earlier, giving form to the division between architects and engineers, between art and science, and embodying a new type of expression through structure and space.
Its abstract qualities, without practical purpose in themselves, and the purity of its design, made it a subject for the many forms of artistic expression of the city and country which had created it.
The Tower very soon became a favorite subject for painters, and contemporary artists continue to use it as their model.
Georges Seurat painted it in 1888, even before its completion.
The pointillist style of the picture, with colored marks juxtaposed to draw light and movement out of the shapes, is exactly consistent with the Tower's own style of architectural expression.
Later the Tower was also celebrated by Le Douanier Rousseau, Signac, Bonnard, Utrillo, Gromaire, Vuillard, Dufy and Chagall.
Robert Delaunay gave it cubist facets in a whole series of canvases started in 1910.
Eiffel had not foreseen that this materialization of an artistic vision could become the world famous emblem of a city like Paris, unique in its exceptional size but reducible and reproducible ad infinitum.
Right from the beginning the popular success of the Tower manifested itself in a multitude of varying forms: miniature models, bottles and candles, bracelet charms and watches, paper cutters and lamp stands.
Eiffel had thought about exploiting the image of the Tower commercially himself, but faced with a general outcry from hordes of goods producers, he gave up his rights and let the image fall into the public domain.
The Tower was also copied on a large scale, most notably at Lyon-Fourviere, Blackpool, New-Brighton near Liverpool, Tokyo, Berlin and most recently at Sttenzhen in China.
The plan to build a tower 300 meters high was conceived as part of preparations for the World's Fair of 1889.
Emile Nouguier and Maurice Koechlin, the two chief engineers in Eiffel's company, had the idea for a very tall tower in June 1884.
It was to be designed like a large pylon with four columns of lattice work girders, separated at the base and coming together at the top, and joined to each other by more metal girders at regular intervals.
The company had by this time mastered perfectly the principle of building bridge supports.
The tower project was a bold extension of this principle up to a height of 300 meters - equivalent to the symbolic figure of 1000 feet.
On September 18 1884 Eiffel registered a patent "for a new configuration allowing the construction of metal supports and pylons capable of exceeding a height of 300 meters".
The Koechlin's plan
In order to make the project more acceptable to public opinion, Nouguier and Koechlin commissioned the architect Stephen Sauvestre to work on the project's appearance.
Sauvestre proposed stonework pedestals to dress the legs, monumental arches to link the columns and the first level, large glass-walled halls on each level, a bulb-shaped design for the top and various other ornamental features to decorate the whole of the structure.
In the end the project was simplified, but certain elements such as the large arches at the base were retained, which in part give it its very characteristic appearance.
The curvature of the uprights is mathematically determined to offer the most efficient wind resistance possible.
As Eiffel he explains: "All the cutting force of the wind passes into the interior of the leading edge uprights.
Lines drawn tangential to each upright with the point of each tangent at the same height, will always intersect at a second point, which is exactly the point through which passes the flow resultant from the action of the wind on that part of the tower support situated above the two points in question.
Before coming together at the high pinnacle, the uprights appear to burst out of the ground, and in a way to be shaped by the action of the wind".
The assembly of the supports began on July 1, 1887 and was completed twenty-two months later.
All the elements were prepared in Eiffel’s factory located at Levallois-Perret on the outskirts of Paris.
Each of the 18,000 pieces used to construct the Tower were specifically designed and calculated, traced out to an accuracy of a tenth of a millimeter and then put together forming new pieces around five meters each.
A team of constructors, who had worked on the great metal viaduct projects, were responsible for the 150 to 300 workers on site assembling this gigantic erector set.
All the metal pieces of the tower are held together by rivets, a well-refined method of construction at the time the Tower was constructed.
First the pieces were assembled in the factory using bolts, later to be replaced one by one with thermally assembled rivets, which contracted during cooling thus ensuring a very tight fit.
A team of four men was needed for each rivet assembled: one to heat it up, another to hold it in place, a third to shape the head and a fourth to beat it with a sledgehammer.
Only a third of the 2,500,000 rivets used in the construction of the Tower were inserted directly on site.
The uprights rest on concrete foundations installed a few meters below ground-level on top of a layer of compacted gravel.
Each corner edge rests on its own supporting block, applying to it a pressure of 3 to 4 kilograms per square centimeter, and each block is joined to the others by walls.
On the Seine side of the construction, the builders used watertight metal caissons and injected compressed air, so that they were able to work below the level of the water.
The tower was assembled using wooden scaffolding and small steam cranes mounted onto the tower itself.
The assembly of the first level was achieved by the use of twelve temporary wooden scaffolds, 30 meters high, and four larger scaffolds of 40 meters each.
"Sand boxes" and hydraulic jacks - replaced after use by permanent wedges - allowed the metal girders to be positioned to an accuracy of one millimeter.
On December 7, 1887, the joining of the major girders up to the first level was completed.
The pieces were hauled up by steam cranes, which themselves climbed up the Tower as they went along using the runners to be used for the Tower's lifts.
It only took five months to build the foundations and twenty-one to finish assembling the metal pieces of the Tower.
Considering the rudimentary means available at that period, this could be considered record speed.
The assembly of the Tower was a marvel of precision, as all chroniclers of the period agree.
The construction work began in January 1887 and was finished on March 31, 1889.
On the narrow platform at the top, Eiffel received his decoration from the Legion of honor.
Journalist Emile Goudeau describes the spectacle visiting the construction site at the beginning of 1889.
A thick cloud of tar and coal smoke seized the throat, and we were deafened by the din of metal screaming beneath the hammer.
Over there they were still working on the bolts: workmen with their iron bludgeons, perched on a ledge just a few centimeters wide, took turns at striking the bolts (these in fact were the rivets).
One could have taken them for blacksmiths contentedly beating out a rhythm on an anvil in some village forge, except that these smiths were not striking up and down vertically, but horizontally, and as with each blow came a shower of sparks, these black figures, appearing larger than life against the background of the open sky, looked as if they were reaping lightning bolts in the clouds.
Installing public elevators on the Tower raised many technical questions, since there had been no previous experience in elevators climbing to such heights and with such loads; the slanting tracks with various angles further complicated the problems.
The original machines in the West and East piers (up to the first floor only) were provided by the French company Roux Combaluzier Lepape, using hydraulically powered double looped chains and rollers in side guides.
Their poor performance led to their removal.
They were replaced in 1897 and 1899 by the Fives-Lille machinery, relying on hydraulic accumulators, 16-meter long main pistons, cable loops and manual controls.
They were a success, steadfastly lifting the tourists up to the second floor until the late eighties.
They were then upgraded to conform to the present day regulations: the old machinery still provides the counterweight power for the dead weights, while the variable parts of the loads were driven by modern high pressure oil pumps and motors controlled by computers.
The original American elevators by Otis in the North and South piers took visitors up to the second floor in a double-decker cabin, using hydraulically powered cables.
They were no match for the Fives-Lille units and were scrapped respectively in 1900 from the South pillar and shortly after 1912 from the North pillar, after a failed attempt to re-power it with an electric motor.
The increasing amount of visitors during the late fifties led to the installation of large capacity machinery in the North pier in 1965.
Manufactured by Schneider Creusot Loire and using the best engineering and electrical machineries available, it was upgraded in 1995 with new cabins and computer controls.
The South pier was rigged anew in 1983 with a small electrically driven elevator by Otis to take customers up to the Jules Verne Restaurant.
In 1989, a four-ton service elevator was added (also by Otis) helping to relieve the main elevators of excessive trips up and down.
It was another feat of accomplishment when the elevator to the third floor was added, traveling 160 meters to the top level.
Built and engineered by Mr Edoux, it consisted of one huge cabin for 110 passengers or a maximum weight of 8 tons and was propped up midway between the second and third levels on the pistons of two vertical hydraulic jacks, 81 meters long.
The counterbalancing cabin was latched onto a set of cables linking to the master cabin over the top sheaves.