Mini Zoo fosters rare species of Asiatic fauna, which include the endangered sun bear; it’s a home to species of animals and birds found only in the hills of Mizoram.
Murlen National Park is situated about 245 kms. east of Aizawl, this Park lies close to the Indo-Myanmar border, it accommodates Tigers, Chamber Deer, Himalayan Bear, Barking Deer, Serow and many varieties of birds and orchid. 
Vantawng is 137 kms from Aizawl are the largest and most magnificent falls in Mizoram, the Vantawng Falls surrounded by a lush forest teeming with bamboo groves and  this is a place of awe- inspiring beauty.
The nearest Airport is Lengpui Airport 45 kms from Aizwal, there are regular flights of Indian Airlines from Aizwal to Calcutta.
Nearest Railhead is Silchar (Assam), which is 180 km.
One of the smallest states of the Indian Union, Nagaland is almost unexplored, as far as tourist destinations are concerned.
A starkly remote terrain and scenery makes Nagaland, a place worth a visit for those adventurous in spirit.
Situated in the north eastern corner of the country, Nagaland has Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur on its domestic borders, while Myanmar shares with it, an international boundary on the east.
Nagaland lies to the South of Jorhat in Assam, and is home to myriad tribes and sub tribes.
The Naga Hills run through this small state Nagaland, which has Saramati as its highest peak at a height of 12,600 ft.
The main rivers that flow through Nagaland are Dhansiri, Doyang, Dikhu and Jhanji.
Nagaland comprises the former Naga hills districts of Assam and the former Tuensang frontier divisions.Languages coomonly spoken here are  English, Angami, Ao, Chang, Konyak, Lotha, Sangtam etc.
Weaving is a traditional art handed down through generations in Nagaland.
Each of the major tribes has its own unique designs and colors, warm and colorful Naga shawls, hand woven shoulder bags, decorative spears, table mats, wood carvings and bamboo works make magnificent souvenirs.
Situated at 1500metres above sea level, Kohima is one of the prettiest centers of North East.
Being a true representative of Nagaland Kohima depicting the most exotic tribal culture.
War Cemetery is a symbolic memorial raised as citation for the supreme sacrifices made by the officers of the Second World War.
The Nagaland State Museum is a one stop treasure house for a glimpse into Naga culture through history. 
Catholic Cathedral is the Aradura hill is an important landmark in Kohima for it is one of the biggest Cathedrals in the whole North - Eastern hills.
At 10 kms. from Kohima, Khonoma is a village that abounds in stories of valor and courage. 
Dzukou Valley is one of the best trekking spots in the North East region at an altitude of 2,438.4 meters above sea level, behind Japfu peak and 30 kms.to the south of Kohima.
Dimapur is situated at an altitude of 195 meters above sea level it is an important commercial centre of Nagaland and one can see here the last relics of the Kachari Kingdom.
Ruzaphema is a place ideally suited for leisure and recreation with its colorful bazaars and a wide range of tribal handicrafts which are exquisite in their style.
Fakim Sanctuary is close to the Myanmar border and receives high rainfall and is inhabited by tigers and Hoolock gibbons.
Dimapur is connected by Indian Airlines flights with Guwahati, Delhi, Calcutta, Imphal and Jorhat.
Dimapur lies on the North East frontier railway which is connected with Delhi, Calcutta, Guwahati and Tinsukia.
Dimapur is connected by good motor able roads with Kohima 74 kms, Kaziranga 155 kms, Imphal 220 kms, Guwahati 292 kms, Shillong 365 kms and Calcutta 1442 kms.
Indian tourists intending to visit Nagaland are required to obtain inner line permit issued by the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Dimapur, Deputy Commissioner Kohima or Deputy Commissioner, Mokokchung.  D.R.C. at Nagaland House, Delhi and Calcutta, Asst. Resident Commissioner of Shillong.
All Foreign tourists visiting Nagaland require Restricted Area permit used by the Minister of Home Affairs, Govt. of India, South Block, New Delhi.
The tropical state of Orissa lies along the eastern seaboard of India, south of Bengal.
Orissa’s main attractions are the temples of the capital Bhubaneswar, the long sandy beach at Puri and the great Sun Temple at Konark.
Orissa is predominantly rural, with fertile green coastal plains rising to the hills of Eastern Ghats.
The state Orissa is mineral rich and is a big exporter of iron ore, with a large factory at Rourkela.
The Oriyas, 25% of whom are indigenous tribal peoples, are particularly friendly and hospitable.
In Bhubaneswar one can visit the finest temples - Lingaraj, Rajarani, Mukteswar, Brahmeswar and Parasurameswar, these temples are some of the best specimens of the Orissa Temple Architecture.
Puri is one of the most important pilgrimage centres for the Hindus.
The renowned Jagannath temple built in the 15th century AD and crowned with Vishnu's wheel and flag dominate the landscape at Puri.
The Jagannath temple with its elaborate carvings and   moldings are very fine examples of Orissa architecture. (Non Hindus are not allowed)
At Dhauli Hills visit the Ashokan Edicts and on top of the Dhauli Hill, near the ancient rock edict is a Peace Pagoda (Shanti Stupa).
The beautiful Sun Temple Konark  built in the 13th century in honor of the Sun God, contains exquisite carvings, life sized lions and elephants, colossal figures of warriors on horses, scenes of battle and chase - all carved with great imagination and skill, testify to the high standard of ancient Indian art and engineering skill.
10 kms west of Bhubaneswar are the Udaigiri Caves, which were occupied by the Buddhist monks as early as the 2nd century BC.
At Amravati, the remains of the Buddhist influence in the Satavahana period include majestic carvings, chaityas, Viharas, murals and panels.
At Nagarjunakonda, the excavated ruins of a Buddhist settlement date back to the second and third century BC.
Bhubaneshwar (Bhuban being world and Iswar God) once the ancient capital of the Kalinga empire and now the capital of Orissa is a town of temples and tanks with a rich history.
Temples in Bhubaneshwar are built on a common plan as prescribed by Hindu norms and it is believed that the beauty of this place inspired Rabindranath Tagore to write poetry in the praise of Bhubaneshwar.
Bindusagar Lake situated to the north of the Lingaraja temple is a lake called the Bindusagar lake adding grace to Bhubaneshwar and attracting many tourists.
Once a year the Lingaraj temple deity is brought out for the ritual bath in the centre of the tank and it is believed a dip in the holy tank at Bindusagar washes away all the sins.
Dhauli hill is on the bank of the river Daya, about 8 kms south of Bhubaneshwar.
In the year 272 B.C., the Kalinga-Nippon-Buddha Sangha established a peace pagoda (Shanti Stupa) at Dhauli along with the construction of a monastery called Saddharma. "Ashoka the Great" transformed totally and changed his mind in favor of spiritual conquests.
Lingaraja Temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva and the Lingam here is unique which is a hari hara lingam -half Shiva and half Vishnu.
The temple is about a thousand years old and dominates the skyline of Bhubaneshwar from as far as 15 kms. away and exhibits the skill of the Orissan temple architects.
Nandankanan literally means the 'Garden of Pleasure' or 'Garden of Gods'.
Nandankanan is in Chandaka forest, 25-kms from Bhubaneswar and is famed for its white tiger population.
The zoo enjoys an excellent reputation internationally, for successfully breeding black panthers and gharial crocodiles.
Rajarani temple got its name from a red- gold sand stone used, which is called Rajarani locally and the temple has no presiding deity.
The Orissa state museum has a rich collection of sculptures, coins, copper plates, stone inscriptions, lithic and bronze Age tools, rare manuscripts written on palm leaves, traditional and folk musical instruments.
Udaygiri and Khandagiri  are the twin hills 7 kms. from Bhubaneshwar.
The 135ft high Udaygiri and 118ft high Khandagiri hills have ancient caves.
Khandagiri means "broken hill" and Udayagiri means "hill of the sunrise", the caves on the two low hills of Udayagiri and Khandagiri give ample proof of Jain and Buddhist occupation.
Bhubaneswar has an airport with regular flights to Mumbai, Calcutta, Delhi, Hyderabad, Nagpur, Varanasi, Raipur and Visakhapatnam.
Bhubaneshwar is directly connected by rail with Calcutta, Puri, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Tirupati and Trivandrum.
Konark also known as "Arka-Tirtha" is famous for its majestic temple of the Sun God.
The word Konark is derived from two word elements - KONA means Corner and ARK meaning the Sun.
The temple city of Konark is situated in the eastern state of Orissa at a distance of around 65 kms from Bhubaneswar and 35 kms from Puri.
'Astranga' literally means varied colors and is about 55 kms from Konark and is a famous fishing harbor.
Balighai Beach is about 8kms to the east of Puri on the Marine Drive.
This casuarina-fringed beach is a famous picnic spot too; one can watch the shy Baliharina deer here and the Sea Turtle Research Centre is another attraction of this beach.
Chaurasi is the site of the shrines dedicated to Laxminarayanan, Amareshras and Barahi.
Barahi is a deity dating back to the 9th century AD, worshipped according to tantrik practices.
Kakatapur is 45 kms from Konark, located in the Prachi valley and is famous for its shrines of Goddess Mangala and Banadurga.
The famous 'Jhamu Yatra' is held in April-May when devotees walk over a narrow trench strewn with embers.
Konark beach is 3 kms away from the temple along the Puri road.
The sunrise at Konark beach is a feast for the eyes and an ideal spot for sun-bathing.
Kuruma is a small village, about 8 kms from Konark and a site of Buddhist archaeological discoveries.
Scholars opine that this was one of the sites containing Buddhist stupas described by Hiuen T'sang.
44kms from Konark is Pipli, a centre for appliqué work, which depict the essence of Oriya culture.
Pipli is also known for colorful and original awnings, canopies, garden and beach umbrellas, shoulder and handbags etc.
Ramachandi is a beautiful little beach on the confluence of the river Kushabhadra and the Bay of Bengal.
Goddess Ramchandi, the presiding deity of the Konark region is worshipped here and the place is ideal for weekend picnics.
The Museum Of Archaeological Survey Of India is just outside the temple enclosure and houses sculptures and carvings from the ruins of the Sun Temple. 
The Sun Temple Konark is built by Raja Narsimhadeva of the Ganga dynasty, in the 13th century AD, the temple is the culmination of Orissan temple architecture.
The Konark temple resembles a colossal chariot, with 24 wheels, pulled by seven straining horses, and has a three-tiered pyramidal roof topped off by a fine spire.
It is said that, the very first ray of the Sun every morning falls upon this Konark temple, from which it got its name.
Bhubaneswar is the nearest railhead, at a distance of 65kms and these two stations are connected to all the major cities in India through long-distance trains.
Puri, the abode of Lord Jagannath, is situated in the eastern part of Orissa and is one of the four holy dhams of Hinduism.
Puri is also called "Sri Purusottama Dham" or "Martya Vaikuntha", the abode of Lord Vishnu on earth.
Puri is located at a distance of 60 kms from the state capital Bhubaneshwar.
Bada Danda is the Grand Road and it extends from the Jagannath Temple to the Gundicha Temple, and is the scene of the great Festival of the Chariots or Ratha Yatra. 
Balighai is just 8 kms away from the crowds of Puri, on the mouth of River Nuanai, Balighai has excellent beach and the Sea Turtle Research center.
Chilka Lake is situated southwest of Puri and this is the largest fresh water lake in Asia (65 kms long, 8-20 kms wide, about 2 m deep).
One can enjoy boating on the shimmering blue waters and in leisure one can enjoy fishing.
Gundicha Mandir is located at the end of Grand road about 3 kms northeast of the Jagannatha temple.
At the time of the Rath Yatra festival, Lord Jagannatha goes to the Gundicha temple and stays there for one week and returns back to his original temple.
Gundicha is also the name of the king Indradyumna, who originally established the temple of Jagannatha.
Raghurajpur is famous for their Patta Chitra painting, this artists village is 14 kms from Puri, makes an interesting excursion.
No village is more involved in preserving India’s priceless skills than Orissa's Raghurajpur with its thatched, brick, houses on high plinths with sit-out platforms and artists busy at work.
Ramgarh Lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree-covered hills.
While the temple of Jamwa Mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities, its beautiful landscape makes it an idyllic picnic spot.
The shrine of Lord Sakshigopal is only 20 kms away from Puri.
The Temple of Lord Jagannath (Lord of the Universe) built during the 12th century A.D. by Chodaganga Deva dominates the landscape for kilometers around.