The period between the decline of the Mughal dynasty and the insurgence of the British Imperial rule, Polo almost vanished from the mainland India.
Fortunately for the world, the game Polo survived in a few remote mountainous enclaves of the subcontinent, notably Gilgit, Chitral, Ladakh and Manipur.
It is to the survival of the Polo game in the remote northeastern state of Manipur, that the world owes the genesis of modern polo, as it is universally played today.
In India, the popularity of polo has waned and risen many time.
Today, polo is not just restricted to the royalty and the Indian Army, many companies and firms too patronize the sport.
Polo facilities are on the rise and polo holidays in India too are in vogue.
Nestled amongst the dense Rishikesh Badrinath highway at an altitude of 380 mts . , here the mighty water of Ganga is ideal for white water rafting there is also ample opportunity to view wildlife in its natural habitat.
Natural walks along the river are a real treat and for adventure lovers rock climbing can be arranged.
GMVN has developed a water sports resort at asan barrage.
14kms From as a barrage is dispatcher, an aquatic complex with a swimming pool, located at the foothills of Shivalik hills and on the bank of river Yamuna.
In the beautiful "lake district" of Nainital, facilities of boating through yachts, paddleboats and traditional rowing bots are available.
The Nanital boathouse club exclusively holds the man agreement of yachting in Nainital.
In Nainital district, Sat Tal, Bhim Tal, and Naukuchiyatal also have water sport &boating facilities.
In district Udhamsingh Nagar of U. P. hills is a place known as Nanaksagar.
The place being nearer to the Nainital, Almora, Pithoragarh etc can attract large number of water sports loving tourists also.
Nearest railhead 15kms away from Khatima distance from Naintal 119 kms nearest airstrip is Pantnagar.
The Indian subcontinent perhaps had the largest network of rivers in the world.
The northern rivers with their origins in the lofty Himalayas provide an exciting adventure for the white water enthusiasts.
Of all the rivers, Ganga is the most beautiful river.
The mighty Ganges originates from Gaumukh in Garhwal region of the Himalayas.
Ganga is a superb river for inflatable rafts.
In Kumaon, the Kail Ganga (sharda) flows down from the Nepal border through kumaon hills.
The kail and Gori Rivers meet at Jauljibi where the water volume increases.
The icy heights of the Himalayas are the source of some of India's mighty rivers.
An intricate network of thundering mountain rivers, flowing through an amazing landscape of thrilling gorges, forests, and remote villages, the Garhwal and Kumaon hills, in the state of Uttaranchal Pradesh, provide ideal settings for some dramatic water adventure.
Rock climbing is largely balance and not strength.
Balance also determines the value of strength by how much energy you spend actually climbing Sheer rock faces, ideal for rock climbing, can be found in many areas.
The Aravali hills have good climbing faces at Dumdama, Dhauj and Nuh, all situated near Delhi.
The Western Ghats has Mumbra and Dudha beyond Pune.
Himachal Pradesh offers the Manali Valley, Manikaran and the Rohtang Pass.
Rajasthan has Mount Abu and Sariska, which have gentler rocks.
In Karnataka there are the Chamundi Hills.
High altitude climbers will enjoy the rock faces at Sonmarg in Kashmir and Gangotri in Garhwal, Uttaranchal.
Certain climbs can often prove grueling and tough, but the magic of the beautiful landscape, the cool weather and pure air keeps the climber's spirit up.
The highest grade climbed is currently 32; serious climbing starts around 10, beginners normally do the early tens and then move upwards.
Rock climbing can become complex because it involves the interplay of many elements you, your gear, your skill and technique.
Monsoons should be avoided climbing is relatively safe, but that shouldn't stop all climbers from taking precautions.
Climbers are not oblivious to heights.
As a climber, you cannot afford to suffer from vertigo or a lapse of judgment.
Specialist equipment such as ropes is often used to protect climbers from falls.
Indoor climbing gyms help in developing many skills in outdoor climbing especially rock climbing.
Unfortunately, Indoors climbing is not found in India but in Western countries.
A rock portion projecting overhead and having an angle of more than 90 degrees is called as Overhang.
A rock portion projecting outwards like a roof at nearly 180* is called a Roof.
The 2 main destinations in India, which have scuba diving activities, as well as courses in the sport are the Andamans and Lakshadweep.
The Andamans have some fascinating underwater marine life, varieties of colorful fishes, shipwrecks and exotic coral reefs.
The coastal water surrounding the islands Andamans and Lakshadweep is the abode of one of the richest coral reef ecosystem is the world.
Many of the islands are surrounded by fringing reefs, often several hundred meters wide and separated from the shore by a lagoon of similar width.
There are also steeply sloping reef walls, and coral pinnacles or knolls.
Island Water Sports is a private water sports operator at Port Blair providing Speed Boats, Jet Skies, Tube Ride, Wake Board Ride, Knee Board Ride, etc.
The Andaman Water Sports Complex at Port Blair is a unique water ports centre run by The Directorate of tourism, it offers adventure water sports like Sailing, Skiing, Parasailing (subject to wind/weather conditions), water scooters and speedboats.
The trekker in the process, also, gets an exposure to the intriguing socio cultural life of the people living in the Chaudans, Byans, and Darma valleys.
Pithoragarh, also called 'Miniature Kashmir', is the base for treks to Jolinkong.
The route to Simla pass is along a heavy blanket of snow, and from here, the beautiful Chhota Kaikash peak is perennially in view.
Auli offers a panoramic view of Himalayan peaks like Nanda Devi, Kamet, Mana Parvat and Dunagiri see mingly only a snowball throw away, Auli offers perfect skiing conditions.
Seasonal skiers have clean stretches of absolutely virgin slopes to sport on.
Winter skiing in Garhwal is now being professionally run at the Auli slopes.
The Auli resort has snow beaters, which beat the snow to keep the slopes, fit for skiing at all times.
A 500 mts long ski lift carries skiers back to the slope top, thus saving them the trouble and time to bridge up wearing long skis.
Participants are advised to bring heavy woolen clothing like caps, socks, gloves, mufflers, pullovers, trousers, wind proof jackets, dark glasses, gum/snow boots and a troche for personal use.
The large slopes of Garhwal and Kumaon covered with seasonal snow become an ideal place for skiing in the winter months.
One can feel the adrenaline level rising as one negotiates the challenges of the steep gradients and traverses unimaginable distances.
Quite truly, the thrill of skiing remains unparalleled as the elements are defeated exhilaration swells up in skiing, the use of only the simplest forms of implements adds to the adventure.
Because of their height and spread, Garwhal and Kumaon, like other sectors of the himalayas, are in a position to offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing the year.
With their vast open spaces, above the snowline, the Garhwal and Kumaon hills of Uttaranchal, offer a plethora of ski locales.
Due to their awesome height and spread, Garhwal and Kumaon, like other areas in the Himalayas, offer the thrills of exploratory long distance skiing, round the year.
Poet Ghyasuddin had designed the verses on the tombstone, while Ismail Khan Afridi of Turkey was the dome maker.
Winter skiing in Garhwal is, now, professionally conducted at the Auli slopes.
The usual season is late December to early March, depending on the snow conditions.
For those fascinated by the unexplored, the mountain ranges of India offer breathtaking, enthralling trekking routes.
In the vast amphitheatre of the Indian Himalayas and Karakorams, there are limitless possibilities for trekking, mountaineering, skiing, and river rafting.
Within this alluring arena, the Garhwal and Kumaon regions, occupy the central place, with special points of interest for the trekker.
Spectacular views apart, the Himalayan foothills are just ideal for trekking, offering energetic outdoor people a different and exciting option for a holiday.
The Garhwal and Kumaon regions of Uttaranchal are the most popular destinations for trekkers, though Chamba and Manali in Himachal Pradesh, and Ladakh and Zanskar in Jammu and Kashmir, have interesting trekking routes as well.
Darjeeling and Sikkim also have some trekking routes.
While trekking as a sporting activity does not require prior training or practice, except that the trekker should be in good physical condition, there are certain dos and don'ts which should be adhered to.
Routes should be carefully chosen, as some treks may be more difficult, or may involve high altitude trekking.
Ensure that the pace of the trek is not too rapid, since this could result in exhaustion, and would in any case not be enjoyable.
The adventure season, which till recently, was confined to the summer months, now covers almost the entire year, including winter.
This has been made possible by improved equipment and transportation, and the availability of year round bookings in areas, hitherto, considered inaccessible.
Moreover, winter treks are gaining popularity as a means of 'getting away' to relatively lower altitudes.
Running water should be used for washing, and washing should be done well downstream of campsites.
Allow for time to enjoy the panoramic and magnificent sites of the awesome mountains, rivers, flora and fauna.
Indian nationals need no permission for trekking in any area, outside the Inner Line.
For routes inside the Inner Line, the local District Magistrate's permission, or that of the Central Home Ministry is necessary.
Treks up to 4900 mts need no permission, and can be undertaken on tourist visas.
The trek winds along the river Mandakini, through dense forests, and across roaring waterfalls.
The 6 km trek from Kedarnath to Vasukital (4135 m) is a continuous ascent along a goat track, and offers a wonderful panoramic view of the Chaukhamba peaks.
The Himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world.
River sports in the rapids are the most popular, throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping.
The innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are ideal for angling and trout fishing.
The coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing, wind surfing, yachting, snorkeling and scuba diving.
Further south you can enjoy water adventures along both the west and the east coasts of India.
The islands of Andaman and Nicobar in the Bay of Bengal and Lakshadweep in the Indian Ocean are virtually untouched and are some of the best spots for scuba diving and snorkeling.
The beaches of Goa and Kerala also offer other sporting opportunities like water skiing, wind surfing and sailing.
The West coast offers sailing in Mumbai, Goa and the lakes around Pune.
For the white water rafting enthusiast, the early stages of the Ganga offer the exhilarating Alakananda and Bhagirathi rivers.
The Indus snaking through Ladakh and the Zanskar and Chenab in Kashmir are very different river running experiences.
The rivers like the Sutlej, Beas (in Himachal Pradesh), Teetsa (in Sikkim), and Yamuna also offer sporting challenges.
The best season for river rafting is from April to September.