The majority of the local residents are engaged in agricultural activities including rice farming, upland crop farming, fruit farming, palm sugar production, animal husbandry and sea and fresh water fisheries.
re are three important Maenam in Phetchaburi including "Maenam Phetchaburi with an overall length of 227 kilometers, "Maenam Bang Kloy", with an overall length of 44 kilometers, and "Maenam Bang Tabun", with an overall length of 18 kilometers.
Chiang Rai, the northernmost province of Thailand is about 785 kilometers north of Bangkok.
Situated on the Kok River basin, Chiang Rai covers an area of approximately 11,678 square meters with an average elevation of 580 meters above sea level. 
The province, which is located within the renowned Golden Triangle area where Myanmar, Laos and Thailand converge, is also known as the gateway to Myanmar, Laos and Southern China.
Chiang Rai, which was founded in 1262 by King Meng Rai,was the first capital of the Lanna Thai Kingdom (Kingdom of a million rice fields), which was later conquered by Burma.
It was not until 1786 that Chiang Rai became a Thai territory and was proclaimed a province during the reign of King Rama VI in 1910.
Today, Chiang Rai is a traveler’s paradise endowed with abundant natural tourist attractions and antiquities; the province itself is evidence of past civilization.
Attractions range from magnificent mountain scenery, ruins of ancient settlements, historic sites, Buddhist shrines and ethnic villages as the province is also home to several hill tribes who maintain fascinating lifestyles.
For those interested in the natural side of Chiang Rai, jungle trekking is recommended along various trails.
Chiang Rai which tends to be a little more 'laid back' now competes with Chiang Mai as a tourist attraction and is fast becoming a popular escape for tourists wanting to get away from the troubles they left behind.
Songkhla, one of Thailand's important ports and coastal provinces, is located 950 kilometers from Bangkok.
Songkhla,occupying an area of 7,393 square kilometers on the eastern side of the Malaysian Peninsula, the province is bordered by the States of Kedah (Sai Buri) and Perlis of Malaysia to the south and the Gulf of Thailand to the east.
In addition, Songkhla borders on Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung Provinces to the north, Yala and Pattani Provinces to the south, and Satun and Phatthalung Provinces to the west.
An undeniably historic town endowed with ancient ruins, arts, and places of cultural importance, Songkhla, a melting pot of Thais, Chinese and Malays, charms visitors with its unique traditions, dialect, and folk entertainment.
Hat Yai, a district of Songkhla, is perhaps better known than the provincial capital itself.
Some archeologists claim that Krabi City is one of the older settlements in the country as there is archaeological evidence indicating that this area had been home to homosapiens during the prehistoric times or between 25,000 - 35,000 B. C.
Hat Yai has gained importance as the driving force of economic growth in the southern region.
Songkhla, a medieval pirate stronghold, is a historic, albeit sleepy town with a thriving fishing community.
Srivijaya outpost in Thailands southern region, Songkhla was initially named Sa-thing".
Previously a port and a coastal trading post where Indian, Persian and Arabian merchants came to exchange their products, the place was named "Sing Lha" after the 2 lion-shape islands at the mouth of the city's lake.
Over the last few decades, Songkhla has been rapidly developed and is currently a unique attraction worth visiting.
Songkhal blessed with natural resources such as fine beaches, enchanting waterfalls, and a tranquil lake, the province has an abundance of tourist attractions and an amazing range of seaside resort towns.
The old section of Songkhla still maintains its unique identity of ancient and historical flavors through local architecture and cuisine.
While Songkhla is noted as a fishing community set in a peaceful atmosphere, Hat Yai, on the other hand, serves as a transportation and communications hub of the south with links to various destinations in the neighboring provinces and Malaysia.
Despite being only 30 kilometers apart, Songkhla and Hat Yai have uniquely contrasting characteristics and are ideal places to visit.
Songkhla is administratively divided into 16 districts: Muang Songkhla, Ranot, Krasae Sin, Sathing Phra, Singhanakhon, Khuan Niang, Rattaphum, Bang Klam, Hat Yai, Na Mom, Chana, Thepha, Na Thawi, Saba Yoi, Sadao, and Khlong Hoi Khong.
According to most historians, the ancient town of Kanchanaburi was located near Ban Lat Ya, a small village situated approximately 16 kilometers north of the present town.
Kanchanaburi, which has mostly mountainous terrain, covers an area of approximately 19,473 square kilometers and is the third largest province in Thailand after Chiang Mai and Nakhon Ratchasima.The site was repeatedly recorded in Thai history as an invasion route which the Burmese used to enter Thai Kingdoms.
Situated approximately 129 kilometres west of Bangkok, Kanchanaburi shares a border with Myanmar to the west, Tak and Uthai Thani Provinces to the north, Suphan Buri and Nakhon Pathom Provinces to the east, and Ratchaburi Province to the south.
In north and west Kanchanaburi, the terrain is comprised mainly of mountains and high plains, with the Thanon Thongchai Range acting as a natural border between Thailand and Myanmar.
The range is the source of Kanchanaburi's two most important rivers Maenam Khwae Noi and Maenam Khwae Yai, which form the famous Maenam Mae Klong.
As a result, several of Thailand's largest Namtok (waterfalls) and most extensive wildlife sanctuaries are found in this area.
The magnificent landscape and charming beauty of Kanchanaburi have resulted in major tourist attractions including several well-known waterfalls, caves which were once inhabited by Neolithic man, pristine national parks, tranquil rivers, virgin forests, and reservoir.
Together, they offer an intriguing experience for first-time or repeat visitors. Whether it’s fishing, rafting, canoeing, mountain biking, bird-watching, star-gazing, golfing, elephant and jungle trekking, or even living in bamboo rafts, Kanchanaburi takes pride in offering them all.
The city of Kanchanaburi is located at the point where two tributaries, the Khwae Noi and Khwae Yai meet and form the Maenam Mae Klong.
location of the notorious Death Railway and the Bridge on the River Khwae one of the worlds famous World War II sites which has been immortalized in print and film.
In economic terms, Kanchanaburi has been doing well on a national scale, with over 10 per cent growth annually.
Important industries include sugar, agricultural products and jewelry and tourism is also a main source of income for the locals as the provinces high tourism potential has made Kanchanaburi number one among the west provinces in having the highest number of visitors each year.
Residents of Kanchanaburi are engaged in agricultural activities.
Most of the locals are of Thai ancestry with notable Mon and Karen minorities in the Kanchanburi region.
Most of the rural dwellers of Kachanburi enjoy living simply and respecting nature.
Folk music and dances dating back at least 500 years are still performed today in Kanchanburi.
Located approximately 814 kilometers from Bangkok is Krabi Province, one of most attractive destinations in southern Thailand.
Encompassing an area of 4,708 square kilometers, the western border of Krabi is the Andaman Sea, the northern borders are Surat Thani and Phang-nga Provinces, the southern borders are Trang Province and the Andaman Sea and the eastern borders are Nakhon Si Thammarat and Trang Provinces.
Krabi is an ideal getaway destination teeming with natural attractions including white sandy beaches, fascinating coral reefs, numerous large and small islands and verdant forests with caves and waterfalls.
Krabi's topography is mostly mountains and highlands separated by plains in some parts.
Flowing through Krabi City to the Andaman Sea at Pak Nam Sub-district is Maenam Krabi which is 5 kilometers in length.
In addition, there are several canals originating from the province's highest mountain range, Khao Phanom Bencha including Khlong Pakasai, Khlong Krabi Yai and Khlong Krabi Noi.
Lush mangrove forests line the canals and the banks of Maenam Krabi particularly before it empties into the Andaman Sea.
The provinces sandy soil conditions are suitable for growing various agricultural products, particularly rubber trees, palms, coconuts, cashew nuts and coffee.
Due to the influence of the tropical monsoon, there are only two seasons in Krabi; the hot season from January to April and the rainy season from May to December. Temperatures range between 17 °C and 37 °C.
Krabi is administratively divided into 8 Amphoes (Districts): Amphoe Mueang, Khao Phanom, Khlong Thom, Plai Phraya, Ko Lanta, Ao Luek, Lam Thap, and Nuea Khlong.
The provinces jurisdiction covers not only in-land districts and sub-districts, but also extends to more than 130 large and small islands including the world famous Phi Phi Islands.
In addition, Krabi is the location of two world class beaches Ao Nang and Hat Rai Le which offer numerous diving trips, restaurants, shops etc.
Additional attractions in the province of Krabi are stunning limestone cliffs and rock formations which make it a heaven for rock climbers and a National Park located approximately 40 kilometers outside of town with lakes, caves and spectacular natural scenery.
Some archeologists claim that Krabi City is one of the older settlements in the country as there is archaeological evidence indicating that this area had been home to homosapiens during the prehistoric times or between 25,000 - 35,000 B. C.
In 1200 A.D., the area of Krabi was known as Ban Thai Samo, one of 12 royal cities that had a monkey as the town symbol.
In 1200 A.D., Krabi was under the rule of the Kingdom of Ligor, a city better known today as Nakhon Si Thammarat.
During the reign of King Rama V (1868-1910), the community was known as Pakasai Sub-county and remained under the direct jurisdiction of Nakhon Si Thammarat province.
Around 1872, King Rama V elevated Pakasai Sub-county to Krabi Province with the provincial administration office situated at Krabi-yai Sub-county (currently, the office is located near the estuary at Pak Nam Sub-district) and in 1875, ordered the separation of Krabi Province from Nakhon Si Thammarat Province.
During the present reign, the corps of civil servants, merchants, and the people of Krabi and nearby provinces has collectively organized the construction of a royal residence at Laem Hang Nak Cape which is thirty kilometers west of Krabi Town on the Andaman coast to be presented to His Majesty the King.
There are two legends concerning the origin of the name "Krabi", the first is that villagers presented a large ancient sword (or krabi) that was discovered by chance to the governor and later when a smaller, on discovering a smaller one, it was also presented to the governor.
As the process for the establishment of the province was still in progress, the swords were placed crossing each other in Khao Khanap Nam cave.
Since then, the crossed swords have remained a part of the provincial seal.
The second legend is that "Krabi" was derived from the name of a local tree known as "Lumphi".
The Malay and Chinese merchants mispronunciation of the name to "Ka-lu-bi" or "Kho-lo-bi" finally resulted in "Krabi" (or sword).
Mountain biking is a sport increasing in popularity in Thailand, both among Thais and young international tourists.
Mountain biking is an ideal means of touring Thailand’s spectacular natural environment; safe, cheap and fun, and environmentally green.
Mountain biking in Thailand is a blend of high-grade exercise and natural, cultural and historical discovery.
The hilly North of Thailand is most suitable for mountain biking.
The best time to Mountain biking is November to February, when the weather is cooler.
A number of companies offer well-organised biking tours, most include guides and, on certain tours, back-up vehicles carrying food and overnight equipment.
Bike are also widely available in major tourist destinations, where they can be rented at extremely reasonable rates on a daily basis
The centre for mountain biking adventure is Pai District, where several bike shops rent out bikes and gear to tourists.
Bike tours explore nearby and remote hilltribe villages, waterfalls and hot springs.
Experienced guides are ready to lead biking parties through breathtaking back-country trails for up to a week.
There are natural cycle paths through the forest, first trod by animals, and then beaten by man.
They range from as narrow as a single person’s stride or as wide as an elephant or ox cart.
The centre of biking activity, the most scenic route is from Doi Inthanon to Ob Luang George via Mae Chaem.
The first leg, a route of about 20 kilometres, is strictly for experienced mountain bikers while the second section, 30 kilometre long, is less demanding and suitable for bikers of intermediate skills and higher.
At the ancient Siamese capital of Sukhothai, there are dedicated cycle paths to take you round the majestic ruins, temples and palaces.
Further south, a bike is the ideal way to see the sprawling remains of the kingdom’s once great capital Ayutthaya.
Just north of Bangkok, Nakhon Nayok has designated off-road biking trails through the foothills of Khao Yai National Park.
Khao Yai itself, with its 13 marked trails, is another magnificent mountain biking site.
Other fine biking routes are in the parks of Khao Sam Roi Yot in Prachuap Khiri Khan, Khao Kichakut in Chanthaburi, Chalerm Rattanakosin and Saiyok in Kanchanaburi, and Kaeng Krachan in Phetchaburi.
Nature bike rides in Thung Salaeng Luang has been dsigned to promote a better understanding of nature and conservation.
Guides are well trained and accompany participants on bicycle trips offering information of interests and safety tips. Contact Camping Bike Co, tel: 0 2873 0087
There are biking tours to suit all abilities and levels of fitness.
Some mountainous routes are best suited to more accomplished riders.
Unless you are used to long periods in the saddle, some of the longer tours will leave you a little sore.
Bikers should be in good working order and capable of handling the terrain you intend to cross.
You should carry enough tools and spares to repair minor mechanical problems, as will as first-aid kits in case of a spill.
As with trekking, a small problem when you are far from civilization can be a big headache, so make sure the tour organizer is well-prepared.
the heat of the tropics and at altitude, consume plenty of water and make sure you have hats and sunblock to protect you from ultraviolet radiation.
Since SpiceRoads is the leading cycling tour operator in Thailand and organises more than 10 scheduled tours throughout the Kingdom.
Nong Khai is a long thin province running along the Mekong River, providing the main accessto Laos. 
Originally people went by boat from Tha Sadet, but the building of the Friendship Bridge across the Mekong has made Nong Khai a major centre for transport and trade with Laos. 
Attractions include Wat Pho Chai, renowned for its large seated Buddha believed to have been cast in Lan Chang, and Phra That Nong Khai, an old chedi that slipped into the river and can now only be seen completely in the dry season. 
Sala Kaeo Ku is a bizarre sculpture garden packed with statres of Shiva, Vishnu and Buddha as well as many other figures from Hindu and Thai culture.