India is home to a disparate but enchanting medley of beatific and moss covered mountainous terrains, which are a sight to behold and a must -visit for all people who have a yen for backpack traveling. 
Hill Stations in India provide a tourist place into Backpack traveling with ample of beautiful and worth-a visit-spot in the vast mountainous terrain in the sleeping Himalayas of India. 
Snow, which is a scarce commodity for Indians in the Northern India so naturally Hill Stations of India is the place where they run for the chill and soothe themselves. 
Hill Stations of India are yet to become commercial hubs but the general tourists and people who are into backpack traveling cause a lot of pollution and disturb the tranquil of Hill Stations in India.
The Botanical Gardens are too, worth a visit for its exotic and exclusive collection of a variety of Himalayan flora and ornamental orchids. 
The gardens also have a green house as an added attraction for the backpack traveling sorts. 
Arriving in Darjeeling can be fun as a ride on the "Toy Train" on its run of 82 kms is through a markedly sylvan surrounding.
The ride to "The paradise on Earth" makes one admire the sylvan surroundings and the attendant Himalayan Flora with the tall poplars and Cedars.
 The Srinagar valley is known amongst the Hill Stations of India for its resplendent valleys, high and clear waterfalls and the frozen Dal Lake, which is the destination for all the honeymooners and tourists alike.
This Hill Station is called as "The Lofty Hill" which was flattened up for the construction of a monastery in the year 1716. 
This Hill Station in India is another congregation point for nature lovers, lovers of sylvan surroundings and the religious sorts with a swathe of historical monasteries located here. 
River Teesta is another attraction for the outdoor types.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, incorporates information on Tours and Travels to Hill Stations in India covering the whole itinerary of places for the nature lovers.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details of tour booking for those interested in going on tour to historical monuments in Kullu in Himachal Pradesh, India. 
Kullu has a lot of potential for the growth of tourism, as there are quite a few ancient forts, old palaces, havelis and a number of other buildings.
Some of the important sites that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in Kullu in Himachal Pradesh, India are Raghunathji Temple, Akhara bazaar, Naggar, Manikarna and Deo Tibba.
The Raghunathji temple was constructed in the 17th century by Raja Jagat Singh of Kulu, India. 
 This shrine is worth visiting as it has a statue of Shri Raghunath on his chariot.
The Akhara bazaar in Kullu in Himachal Pradesh, India is one of the most frequented tourist sites; this market has its own rustic charm. 
This is the main bazaar in Kullu, Himachal Pradesh, India. 
The shops at this lovely market sell traditional stuff such as traditional caps, shawls and rugs among other things.
The Bijli Mahadev Temple is an important tourist site that you must visit during your historical tours to Kullu in Himachal Pradesh, India. 
This temple is popular for the 20-meter high rod that periodically attracts lightning that shatters the Shivalinga and scorches the building that the pundit puts together by using butter adhesive.
Its 16th century stone and wood castle is now a hotel run by Himachal Tourism.
 Here, a gallery houses the paintings of the Russian artist, Nicholas Roerich. Naggar also has three other old shrines.
Also known as Indralika, this 2,953 meters (9,687 ft.) high snow dove Jagatsukh, has a legend around it, with Arjuna. 
He started performing 'tapa' at this mountain, under the advice of Maharishi Vyas, in order to obtain the powerful Pasupata Astra from Indra.
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours for honeymooners in India and the destinations for honeymooners in India are spread out all over the length and breadth of the country.
When such a Gandharva Vivaha would be regularized then, "Meala" or a healthy drink would be made compulsory for the wedding couple for a stipulated period to make them teem with virility and vitality, the hallmarks of wedded life.
Honeymooners in India would love to partake of these Honeymoon Destinations in India.
 The places on offer a kaleidoscopic variety of locales covering a vast span from the cold, freezing climes of Srinagar with the attendant romantic boat rides to a dip in the salty Arabian Sea in the golden beaches of a gothic Goa.
A daring dip in the salty Arabian Sea in the golden beaches of a gothic Goa, India can be a memorable occasion for some of the starry eyed couples, out to solemnize their tryst with destiny. 
Goa is a premier beach vacation Desination.
The first and foremost in the itinerary of beaches is the Anjuna beach which can be the source of supreme pleasure for the newly weds with its flea market and the wild raving parties as a major Honeymoon Destination in India.
But for people looking for a quiet, walk of solitude down one of the beaches can opt for the quieter version of the coastline in the form of the famous Baga Beach in Goa, India.
 This beach is synonymous for it’s slightly more picturesque Goa as it is located in the cavity of a rock and that too, in the wooded part of one of the most favored Honeymoon Destinations in India for honeymooners in India.
Udaipur as a Honeymoon Destination in India for honeymooners in India is a very apt spot as it is also known as the" City of lakes" for the uninitiated wedded ones.
Places of visit and presence include the Island Hotel in the middle of lake Fatheh Sagar, which is once again built out of an Old Palace. 
Then we have the beautiful Saheliyon Ki Baadi which is another royal fountain dedicated to the reigning dynasty and its entourage of family members.
 The boat rides in the "Lake Pichhola" is also a memorable experience to relish for the Honeymooners in India All this paraphernalia more than qualifies Udaipur as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India for the prospective honeymooners in Udaipur, Rajasthan, India.
Apart from these tokenish items on the list of Honeymoon Destinations in India for the honeymooners in India, India Travel Destinations arranges tours to the following Honeymoon Destinations in India for the interested honeymooners in India.
Idukki can be rightfully termed as the Hilly District of Kerala and has emerged, as a prominent Hill Station in India with the foci of attention being on wildlife, as a thriving Wildlife Sanctuary agog with life, is located within its confines.
 A tour to Kerala has all allurements of the order of sleepy backwaters, the mystical Boatmen and the picturesque tropical forests in their right order.
 Only that Idukki as a Hill Station in India is in a genre apart from the rest of the places will become evident to the tourist in a tour to Idukki. 
Idukki as a Hill Station in India is much sought after for its wildlife treasure keenly followed by other attractions like tea plantations, rides on Elephants and a repository of rich spices, too.
 India Travel Destinations organizes tours to Idukki to let the interested souls decipher its beauty and discreet wilderness.
 The name Idukki is derived from "Idukku" which refers to a narrow gorge in Malayalam. 
Then, the district is host to Periyar River, which flows through two massive rocks in the region, which again have mythological connotations attached to them.
Idukki as a prominent Hill Station in India is home to the largest wild life Sanctuary in India, which has an expanse of approx. 
Animal life of the order of Deer, Giant, and Malabar Squirrel abound in plenty in this scenic Hill Station in India.A tour to Idukki would reveal the selfsame.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, incorporates all the needed information about tour packages to Idukki with its facilities of on -line booking at the command of the wiling traveler.
India is a vast country with a rich cultural heritage and a diverse historical background. 
The Indian map as it exists today came into being only in the post-1945 period. 
Before that, different areas in the Indian subcontinent were ruled by different dynasties and rulers. 
These rulers constructed a number of forts, temples, mosques and a hoard of other architectural wonders.
A number of these ancient buildings still exist, quite a few of these ancient structures are still there in all there glory and a few others are in complete ruins.
India Travel Destinations offers you details of a number of historical monuments in the different states of India. 
Some of the most popular historical monuments in India are the Taj Mahal and Itmad-ud-Daulah's tomb in Agra, Red Fort, Jama Masjid, Humayun's tomb and the Jantar Mantar in Delhi, the Meenakshi Temple in Chennai, Arjuna's Penance at Mahabalipuram, Bharathiyar Illam in Tamil Nadu, the Hawa Mahal, Amber fort and Jantar Mantar in Jaipur, the Ajmer Sharif in Ajmer and many more.
The site India Travel Destinations gives details of tours to historical monuments in different parts of India.
The site India Travel Destinations takes you on tours to the historical monuments in Jaipur that is popularly known as the pink city of Rajasthan, India.
Jaipur is perhaps the ideal city that you can choose for going on historical tours to Rajasthan, North India.
 This rustic city has plenty of forts and monuments that remind you of the ancient glamour, glory and charm of Rajput rulers.
Some of the popular historical monuments in Jaipur, India that you can visit on your holiday tours are the Jantar Mantar, the Amber Fort, Jaigarh Fort, Nahargarh Fort, Hawa Mahal, Lakshmi Narayan Temple, Govind Devji Temple, Sisodia Rani Palace, Royal Cenotaphs and JalMahal.
Hawa Mahal jaipur The Jantar Mantar is an astronomical observatory located at Jaipur, India was constructed by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh II in the year 1716.
There is huge masonry instruments of extraordinary precision located inside the Jantar Mantar that can still be used accurately. 
The astronomical instruments at the Jantar Mantar were meant to determine the exact position of longitudes, the equator and the latitudes. 
The main astronomical instruments set up at this royal observatory are the Jaiprakash Yantra, Ram Yantra and the Samrat Yantra.
The Hawa Mahal is one of the most popular monuments that you can visit during your tours to Jaipur in Rajasthan, India. 
This historical monument is a multi-layered palace that has a beehive structure and is an architectural wonder. 
Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh of Jaipur, Rajasthan, built the Hawa Mahal in the year 1799. 
This architectural wonder was built with pink and red sandstone and the walls of this monument are decorated with artistic motifs.
The Amber Fort located at a distance of 11 kilometers from Jaipur, Rajasthan, India. 
The Amber Fort complex is located atop a hill overlooking the tiny Maota Lake and the Jaipur-Delhi highway. 
This massive and imposing architectural wonder is a must visit during your tours to historical monuments in Jaipur, India. 
There are quite a few monuments within the fortress such as the Diwan-e-Khas, Sukh Niwas, the Jai Mandir, Sheesh Mahal and the Temple of Victory.
The Jaigarh Fort is located on top of a hill. 
This massive fort is flanked by tall and huge gateways and watchtowers and makes a great place to visit during your historical tours to Jaipur, Rajasthan, India.
The Nahargarh Fort located in Jaipur, India is also situated on top of a hill.
 This fantastic historical monument was constructed in the year 1734.
Travel Destinations, the tour guide, provides the outdoor traveler with an opportune moment to have a go at one of the racier and less explored aspects of adventure tourism in India, i.e. jeep safari in India which is definitely tourism with a difference. 
Jeep safari, a unique aspect of adventure tourism in India is more of a western concept as the fusion of motor and nature is something which is still alien to the psyche of adventure tourism in India.
Jeep safari with the outdoor element rolled into the thrill of the rides undertaken is tourism with a difference very much to be kept in a different plane then all the rest of the breeds of adventure tourism in India.
Jeep safari in India is still a fledgling concept with only the very elite travelers with a fat purse pursuing it. 
All this makes jeep safari in India earn the epithet of tourism with a difference.
 Jeep safari in India is on aspect of adventure tourism in India which entails an immense amount of outdoor roving on land.
Jeep safari in India includes predominantly, rides through the rugged and cavernous kuccha tracks and the lonesome, wind swept planes nestled in the foothills of Himalayas.
Apart from this region in India, one can avail of jeep safari in India of a cross-country nature, too, which covers the whole length and breadth of the country in one grand sweep.
The sight of jeeps and HUV's trudging along in a ponderous serpentine row across uninhabited stretches with the hill on one side and a deep gorge on the other, forms a staple image that on has learnt to attach to the term, jeep safari in India which is a unique sort of adventure tourism in India.
Ladakh and Leh nestled in the foothills of Himalayas form the favorite hunting grounds for riders participating in jeep safaris in India. Monastery special, Sareolsar lake, Apple belt safari, temple safari and the lake special safaris in the upper reaches of Himalayas are a few of the favorite treks followed by some of the corporate sponsored safaris in India.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details of tour booking and online reservation for tours to the historical monuments in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
There are several historical monuments in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India that are worth visiting during your tours to this region. 
Some of the historical monuments are the Mehrangarh Fort, Jaswant Thada, Sadar Market, Umaid Bhawan Palace, Maha Mandir Temples and the Osian Jain Temples. 
There are quite a few monuments in Jodhpur, India.
The Mehrangarh Fort is located at a distance of almost 5 kilometers from the main Jodhpur city in Rajasthan, India. 
This historical monument is situated atop a hill that is about 150 meters high and during your tours to this part of Rajasthan you could trek up to the fort. 
This historical monument is quite a formidable structure and is one of the most impressive architectural wonders in the Jodhpur region.
The Mehranga fort Jodhpur This fort was considered as invincible during the period when the royal family reigned from here. 
This gigantic and imposing historical fort has a number of palaces, havelis, temples and other buildings inside the fort walls.
The Lohapol or the Iron Gate at the Mehrangarh Fort has a special historical significance and attracts tourists even today. 
This Iron Gate has the palm prints of the queens of Maharaja Man Singh who jumped into his funeral pyre and committed sati. 