One of the most impressive palaces constructed during the last half of the 19th century the Lallgarh Palace defies the bleak and rugged reality of the harsh Thar Desert around Bikaner.
Lallgarh Palace was the most completely integrated example of Indo-Saracenic architecture.
You can enjoy terra-cotta ware, traditional Rajasthani musical instruments, and a miniature of the Royal Bikaner train, antique carpets and royal vestments in the Ganga Golden Jubilee Museum.
You can also see the royal decree of Prince Jehangir advising Rai Singh to immediately proceed to Delhi as Emperor Akbar is dying.
Camel Breeding Farm is Just 8 km away from the city, at the govt. run camel breeding farm, you discover a lot about the Ship of the Desert.
You learn that the long-haired camel with hair on its ears is the Bikaner variety, famed for its strength. 
The light-colored ones are the ones from Jaisalmer, and are prized for their speed.
The dark-colored camels come from Gujarat and the female camels are prized for their milk-producing capacity.
Jaipur, also known as the Pink City of India, was founded by Maharaja Jai Singh II (1693-1743) and is the capital of Rajasthan.
Jaipur is surrounded by hills and dotted with forts, and is one of the links to the famed Golden Triangle of North India along with Delhi and Agra.
Jaipur also serves as the most convenient entry point to Rajasthan, India's most colorful and vibrant state.
An extremely well planned city, Jaipur was designed by an engineer and scholar Vidyadhar Bhattacharya, in accordance with ancient Hindu treatise on architecture, the Shilpa Shasta (Vastu).
Jaipur remains the only place where the nine sectors that sub-divide the city symbolize the nine divisions of the universe.
Jaipur is surrounded by a wall having seven gates and was built for protection from invading armies and wild animals that lurked just outside in the jungles that surrounded the city.
The Old City, also known as the Pink City, is a wonderful place to wander around.
The whole city was painted pink by Maharaja Man Singh II when Prince of Wales, later Edward VII, visited Jaipur in 1876.
 Houses with pink latticed windows line the streets, and look almost magical at sunset.
Jaipur's regal heritage is evident in its architecture and culture.
Beautifully laid out gardens and parks, attractive monuments and marvelous heritage hotels, once the residence of Maharajas are testaments to the Rajasthan of yesteryears.
The arts and crafts of Rajasthan state are amazing.
You'll find elaborately fashioned jewellery, the multi-colored 'bandhini' fabrics, richly decorated handlooms, and other trinkets at the colorful bazaars of Jaipur.
These bazaars are a lot of fun not just what are available, but also for the cheerful people in their traditional costumes.
Amer Palace, magnificent fort with its huge ramparts & watchtowers is believed to have been the capital of the "Minas", the original inhabitants of Rajasthan.
City Palace is a magnificent structure, the palace occupies one seventh of the walled city of Jaipur and is a wonderful blend of Rajput and Mughal architecture.
The palace houses an extensive collection of rare manuscripts, Mughal and Rajasthani miniatures, Mughal carpets, costumes and textiles, arms and weapons, objects of art and royal paraphernalia.
Jaigarh Fort was cleverly built to give its archers an advantage over their targets.
The Jaigarh Fort also houses the Jai Ban - the largest cannon in Asia, rumored to have been test fired only once.
The enchanting Hawa Mahal is a multi-layered palace, with a profusion of windows and stone screens.
Jantar Mantar, one of the five observatories built by Maharaj Jai Singh, in 1718.
Constructed with stone and marble, Jantar Mantar’s complex instruments whose setting and shapes are precisely and scientifically designed represent the high points of Medieval Indian astronomy.
Nahargarh meaning abode of the tigers was built by Jai Singh to bolster the defense of Amer.
Originally called Sudarshan Garh, Nahargarh offers a breathtaking view of Jaipur.
Erected in the middle of Ram Niwas Garden, Albert Hall was built in 1876 to mark the visit of Prince of Wales.
Albert Hall was designed by Sir Swinton Jacob and opened in 1887 as a public museum.
Albert Hall contains a fine collection of sculptures, paintings, decorative art objects, natural history specimens, an Egyptian mummy and a celebrated Persian Garden Carpet.
Bairath is an important historical place with the excavated remains of a circular Buddhist temple - unique in Rajasthani and the earliest known temple in India.
Bairath also has relics of the Mauryan, Mughal and Rajput periods, a mint constructed by Akbar, a beautiful Mughal garden and a remarkable monument with painted chhatris and wall built by Jahangir are other attractions.
The island palace-Jal Mahal built by Sawai Madho Singh as a pleasure spot at the centre of the Man Sagar Lake, and the Kanak Vrindavan complex of temples and gardens recently renovated to its pristine glory.
Ramgarh Lake is a huge artificial lake created by constructing a high bund amidst tree covered hills.
While the temple of Jamwa Mata and the ruins of the old fort are some of its antiquities, its beautiful landscape, especially during in oils pools, makes it an idyllic picnic spot.
Nestled in a narrow valley, the beautiful Vidyadhar's Garden was built in honor of jai Singh's chief architect and town planner.
Across India Makar Sankranti is celebrated as a harvest festival, but this is the day of kites at Jaipur and Jaipurites are famous for their expertise in kite flying.
Unlike any other city, the jaisalmer desert fortress is one of Rajasthan's most exotic and unusual towns.
Jaisalmer, an important ancient trading centre because of its strategic location on the camel trade routes, is often described as the 'golden city'.
The havelis, built by merchants of the 19th century, are exquisitely carved from golden-yellow sandstone and are still in a beautiful condition.
The fort built by Rawal Jaisal in the 12th century, stands on the 80 metre high Trikuta hill, with beautifully carved Jain temples.
The annual desert festival takes place in January and February each year and is a riot of color and activity.
Jaisalmer is also famous for its embroidery, Rajasthani mirror work, rugs, blankets, antique, and stonework and camel safaris into the barren sand-dunned desert.
The peak season in Jaisalmer runs through autumn, winter and spring in the months of October - March.
Jaisalmer is famous for mirror work embroidered articles; woolen pattu and other items made of good quality locally produced wood, wooden boxes, trinkets, silver jewellery and curios.
In Jaisalmer the main shopping areas are Sadar Bazaar and Sonaron Ka Bas, Manak Chowk, Pansari Bazaar.
Jaisalmer Fort built in 1156 by the Bhatti ruler, Jaisala, the fort stands atop the 80 m high Trikuta hill.
Over the centuries, the golden sand stone fortress witnessed many battles between the Bhattis, the mughals and the rathors of Jodhpur.
Within the fort complex laid the beautifully carved Jain Temples built between the 12th and 15th centuries.
The Maharawals (rulers) of Jaisalmer were devout Hindus but were tolerant of Jainism, and encouraged art and religion.
There are 7 temples in the complex - handraprabhu, Parasnath, Shitalnath, Sambhavnath, Shantinath, Kunthunath and Rikhabdev Temple, the temples are all connected by a series of corridors and walkways.
Close by is the Gyan Bhandar, a library founded in 1500 A.D; this house is priceless ancient manuscripts and other exhibits like astrological charts, besides the Jain equivalent of the Christian Shroud of Turin.
Laxminath Temple is located in a centre of the fort; the less ornate Hindu temple in the complex features an interesting dome that exhibits fine paintings.
In earlier times, Jaisalmer's strategic position on the camel train route brought it great wealth.
Made of local golden-yellow sandstone and wood, some of the havelis are still in excellent condition.
The most exotic mansions or havelis, all intricately latticed, are stretched all over Jaisalmer, each with a different facade. 
Patwon Ki Haveli is one of the largest and most elaborate havelis in Jaisalmer, it is five stories high and extensively carved.
Salim Singh Ki-Haveli is just three centuries old, and is still lived in, its arched roof is held up by well excluded brackets in the form of peacocks.
Nathmalji-Ki-Haveli, one very interesting fact about this haveli is that its two sides were carved by two brothers.
The Pagoda like Tazia Tower rises from the Badal Mahal (Palace of Clouds), each storey of this five-tiered tower has a beautifully carved balcony.
Outside the fort is the main market place called Manak Chowk which is the centre of local activity.
From Manak Chowk, one can walk into the lanes where the famous carved havelies are to be found.
While in Jaisalmer, it is difficult to resist the charm of a camel safari, the most interesting way to explore the desert around.
The best way to see Sand dunes and other sights around Jaisalmer is to take a camel safari.
Bada Bagh is a fertile oasis that supplies vegetables and fruits to the city of Jaisalmer.
Out in the desert, and just 40 kilometers south-west of Jaisalmer, lays the village of Khuri, the main attraction here is the desert solitude and beautifully decorated houses of mud and straw.
A trip to the Sam sand dunes marks the grand finale, where one can enjoy camel rides and brilliant performances by the folk artistes under the full moon against the backdrop of picturesque dunes.
A good network of roads joins Jaisalmer with Jodhpur and many other destinations in and around Rajasthan.
Jodhpur, the second largest city of Rajasthan, at the edge of the Thar desert was once the capital of the Marwar state.
Jodhpur was founded in 1459 A.D. by Rao Jodha-chief of the Rathore clan of Rajputs who claimed to be descendants of Rama - hero of the epic 'Ramayana'.
The city dominated by the massive Mehrangarh fort on a rocky hill is charming with its wealth of historic attractions and colorful markets which specializes in antiques.
Jodhpur is still one of the leading centers of wool, cattle, camels and salt.
Situated in western Rajasthan, Jodhpur has long attracted both the domestic and outside tourist.
Jodhpur not only offers tangibles, in terms of what you can see and buy but also fills one with a sense of history and the splendors of an era gone forever.
Every pore of Jodhpur tells its own tales of heroic tales that made legends out of kings and soldiers, romances that continue to warm the heart and a time when epics were lived out on the streets by everyday man.
Mehrangarh Fort is considered one of India's best forts; this invincible stronghold of the Marwars sits on a steep hill lording over a wonderful view of its surroundings.
The Umaid Bhawan Palace was built in the 20th century as a famine relief project, providing employment to its people over a time period of 16 long years.
If forts can be ornate, Umaid Bhawan Palace is a palace we are talking about.
Umaid Bhawan is fabulously maintained and contains within, the museum - a veritable treasure-trove of memorabilia showcasing the royal past of Jodhpur.
Close to the fort complex, Jaswant Thada the 19th century cenotaph was built in white marble, in commemoration of Maharaja Jaswant Singh II.
For those of you that cannot get through a holiday without sport; the Sadar Club at Ratanada offers a round of golf.
The Sadar club was built by the British about 100 years ago and the ambience is wonderful especially if you like a round of golf.
In Osian the tourist's have the liberty to watch the architectural forms during that camel ride and return back to the camps or the resorts followed by drinks and thematic evening of performing arts and a choice of oriental cuisines arranged in the ethnic style of that region.
Machiya Safari Park lies on the way to Jaisalmer, about 1km from Kailana Lake.
There is also large number of birds, which can seen from an exclusive bird watching point and also nice sunset can seen from the fort of park.
Nimaj also covers a unique art gallery showcasing some masterpieces of sculptural art, adorned within natural surroundings so as to provide an authentic ambience.
Jodhpur has some festivals that are special if not unique to it, the kite festival of Jodhpur being one of them.
The vibrant and fun filled Marwar festival is held annually and is a celebration that brings to life the essence of all that Rajasthan stands for.
The Marwar Festival is held every year in memory of the heroes of Rajasthan.
Khimsar is a fine tourist destination in Rajasthan.
Khimsar is located on the route between Jodhpur and Bikaner.
An ideal destination to explore the rustic charm of Rajasthan, Khimsar is famous for its fort.
The fort was originally built as protection, was later used by the royal family as the residence in the 18th century. 
Rao Karamsi-the eighth prince of Rao Jodha, the founding Maharaja of Jodhpur successfully launched the royal dynasty at Khimsar.
Khimsar experiences extreme climatic conditions with very hot summers and cold winters.