There are exquisite silk saris and brass lamps for festive occasions.
Bronze icons is ancient crafts of panchaloha attained glory under the Cholas, and the best bronze icons are still cast in the old Chola Strongholds of Madurai, Swaminalai and Tiruchinapalli by craftsmen who strictly adhere to tradition.
By this method the icon is first made in wax, then three layers of clay are applied on the wax model, and it is allowed to dry.
The mould is then drained of wax and over an oven, and molten metal is poured into it – after a few days, the mould is broken and the bronze icon emerges.
From wooden temple cars to intricately carved panels and floral motifs, woodcraft has been part of Tamil Nadu’s heritage since time immemorial.
The finest examples of woodcwrving are found in Tiruchirapalli, Coimbatore, Salem and Dharmapuri .
Today small shrines carved from teak are popular, as are traditional Devakottai and Karaikkudi panels, which are often used as wall decorations.
If you are interested in buying rosewood carvings, with details etchings of flowers or animals, it’s best to visit Madurai.
The classic Tanjore Paintings, inlaid with gold leaf, glass and precious stones, furnished in the Chola capital of Tahnjavur.
The Tanjore paintings have, over the centuries, remained traditional, featuring gods, and goddesses, and religious themes, in a subtle composition and stunning blend of colors.
However, over the last century, artists have experimented a little, choosing to add figures of different proportions, birds, flowers and animals.
The creation of a painting is a procedure in stages – first, a board is prepared, and the painting done on unbleached cloth, is fixed to it.
The drawing is traced on the board, the pieces of glass, semi-precious stones and ornamental pieces are stuck to the board.
The outline is then painted with the combination of chalk powder and gum Arabica, before gold foil is used to the opulence of the painting.
Finally, the dyes are added and the frame is chosen.
Nagercoil in the district of Thanjavur, is famous for its artistic brass lamps.
Known as Kuthu Vilakku, the brass lamps are used for pujas, and also for decoration.
Pick them up in various patterns and sizes depending on what you are looking for.
The metalware of the Nagercoil is distinctive  as well – have a look at the tumblers, water containers, spittoons , bells and candlestands being produced by the bell-metal workers; you are sure to find something you like.
While pottery is a thriving business all over the state, the famous Ayyanar horses, made in Salem and Pudokottai in terracotta, are a must buy.
Traditionally believed to provide protection against evil in olden times, each village was ‘guarded’ by a large terracotta horse station at the entrance.
Conventionally made by mixing clay with straw and fashioning each part individually before joining them, today, the popularity of these items have led potters to use moulds for terracotta items.
The gorgeous and always popular silk sari from Kanchipuram is usually at the top of just about anyone’s shopping list, when they are in Tamil Nadu.
With designs inspired by nature, myth and religion woven into silk, which is embellished with gold threads and contrasting border, they are both sensous and dramatic.
The pallu of the sari is often woven separately.
Weavers of these Kanchipuram saris claim decent from the illustrious sage Markanda, ‘the weaver of gods’, who it is believed, wove the first fabric ever, from lotus fiber.
A visit to any of the monuments at Mamallapuram will give you a good idea of skill possessed by the craftsmen in the area since the time of the Pallavas.
Mamallapuram is still famous for its finely chiseled sculptures, beautiful detailing, and precise measurements.
Most sculptures are religious in nature, and borrow heavily from mythological themes.
Visit the Mamallapuram school of sculpture to watch the carvers at work – and to pick up a souvenir made from granite or soapstone – a small idol, a nameplate, or even a garden ornament.
If stainless steel utensils are your weakness, then Chennai is the place to shop for them.
The city is lined up with shops that have everything you need to stock up your kitchen shelves with.
One of the biggest names is Rathna stores in Pondy Bazaar, a sprawling departmental store stacked with rows of utensils that almost touch the ceiling.
Pick up neat tumblers bowls, tiffin carriers idli cookers and various containers from one of the innumerable shops in Pondy Bazaar.
I love to shop for my Kanchipuram Pattu saris at Sundari Silks .
Come to Arunachal Pradesh, the last frontier, for a close encounter with nature, or culture, or an especially tranquil retreat.
Come and experience the splendour, friendliness, and colors of its many  tribes and festivals, come to land of the Rising Sun.
Sunlight plays with darkness at misty Munnar, the quaint hill station in Kerala.
Neelekurunji flowers, which bloom once in every 12 years, carpet the serene hills of Munnar.
Dadra & Nagar Haveli, with its sprawling greens, serene water bodies, unfrequented tree – lined streets, unyielding forts and mesmerizing havelis, this tiny dot on the map is cocooned in its own obscure charm.
Daman a place with Seductive and inviting beaches with warm white sands, well manicured gardens .
Rediscover a pace of life in Daman taht is virtually lost to the modern world.
Indian at heart but Portuguese by appearance, a small island known as Diu, is a destination waiting to be explored.
Soak in the sun on Diu’s unspoilt beaches, enjoy leisurely rambles on its narrow lanes, and return with unforgettable memories of its picture – book landscape. 
Lime washed churches, bustling markets, rainswept beaches and an unhurried rhythm of life … come to this scenic state; Goa, and get acquainted with the many moods of a tourist heaven . 
Exotic wildlife, regal structures and platters of scrumptious eats – the Mahatma’s State Gujarat has more facets than we know of it.
Take in the entrancing beauty of Gujarat’s stark landscape, offset by its colorful people.
 Madhya Pradesh’s historic places and forts figure in every traveller’s itinerary.
Maharashtra, restless yet serene, familiar yet mysterious, this western stunner of a state is full of colorful surprises.
Although they share the western coast, lush, unspoilt environs and a heritage and landscape forever marked by Portuguese colonists, Daman and Diu and Dadara & Nagar Haveli have markedly different experience to a traveler.
Located at the mouth of river Damanganga, on the Gulf of Khamba, Daman is home to some of the most magnificent Portuguese architecture in India.
Even though most people come here to enjoy either the well – developed Devka Beach or the quieter and more pristine Jampore beach.
It is recommended that one should take a break from sun and sand and, instead, take a walk back in time at Nani Daman, or little Daman, which is home to the gigantic fort of St. Jarome.
After a day or two of revisiting history, head to Diu for a relax beach break.
The island may be tiny but it is generously lined with golden beaches and delightful Portuguese architecture.
Finally, visit verdant Dadra & Nagar Haveli, which is designed to relax and soothe with its landscape gardens, tranquil forests and picturesque tribal villages.
Together, Daman, Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli can be compared with the best that India has to offer.
A romantic gateway, the Daman Ganga valley Resort, Silvassa offers plush rooms, and a Roman style décor.
The tow Honeymoon suites in Daman Ganga valley Resort are specially designed to make you feel like royalty.
The resort also offers an ayurvedic massage centre and a souvenir shop.
There is also a good poolside restaurant, and the garden offers great barbecues around a campfire.
 Ras Resort is located on the banks of Damanganga raiver.
The tastefully decorated rooms afford either a view of the river or the manicured lawns.
You can while your days away at the swimming pool, the reading room, the gym or at sauna.
The stylish restaurant, Bistro and Banyan Tree also offer excellent food, coupled with well – stocked bars.
Ubadya is a local version of the Undhiyu of Gujarat, ubadya is a mix of vegetables abd beans roasted in an earthen pot.
Try Ubadya at Kamat’s Ni Wadi, a garden restaurant at the Kamat’s resort in silvassa.
The tribal groups have interesting variety of vegetables, flavoursome wild Mushrooms, bamboo shoots, rotis made from various flours, freshwater crabs and river fish like rohu and crab.
While the tribal food is not usually available at hotels and restaurants, it is readily available in the small eateries of Dabra’s villages.
Steam chickpea cake cut into squares, Khaman is extremely popular in Silvassa. 
For Khaman and other Gujarati – style delicacies, visit Sai  Bhojanalaya, a favourite restaurant with locals in Panchayat Market.
Visit this unassuming place known as Patio, for the most delectable seafood dishes.
The pomfret masala and the spicy prawns are especially mouthwatering.
Get lovely gift items or just explore the town by visiting the market.
Though Dadra & Nagar Haveli is not a typical shopping destination, it still does offer some unique and authentic buys at reasonable prices.
Invest some time in combing in the place and hunt for small market that hide many gems.
A must visit, however, is the handicraft centre at the Tribal Cultural Museum in Silvassa.
In the Museum you will find excellently crafted bamboo mats and baskets, leather slippers, wall hangings, pottery.
The very pulse of Silvassa, Kilvani Road is where the bulk of the town’s commerce is concentrated. 
Shop for the clothes, shoes, watches and more – take a break at one of the many small eateries that surrounds this area.
You won’t feel like an outsider in tribal country for long – the untouched beauty and simplicity of Dadra & Nagar Haveli will draw you right in.
It may be becoming increasingly popular as a holiday resort, but the real treasures of Dadra & Nagar Haveli lie on tranquil trails off its main roads.
The Damanganga river divides this sleepy little union territory in two, with its three main towns, Silvassa, Khanvel and Dadra to the north, while the Western Gahts rise up in the south.
What few people know about this tiny union territory is an idyllic destination for ecotourism amidst unspoiled forests and verdant meadows.
Just three hour from Mumbai and two hours from Surat, Silvassa the headquarters, is a short drive off the Delhi – Mumbai highway, and easily accessible. 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli is a boon for families, geared up for children with parks and gardens at many locations.
There’s a cheerful children’s park and mini zoo at Silvassa Circle and the Hirwa Van garden (named for a tribal deity) at Piparia.
The Vasona Lion Safari is another place that can be very exciting for children.
Minibus safaris in the enclosure offer the excitement of spotting Lions in their natural habitat, and you can imagine a few moments that you’re in the Gir Forests.
Another good option is treat resort, which has a water park, discotheque, pool and variety of  games.
The resorts in Dadra & Nagar Haveli are also popular for film units, who find these locales convenient for shoots out of Mumbai.
There’s bonus of discovering the tiny tribal villages around Silvassa.
The entrance of Satmaliya Dapada Sanctuary falls on the Silvassa – Khanvel Road, but once inside one can found himself enjoying a drive on a jungle trail through mixed forests and teak plantations.
Drive to the delightful Khanvel Forest Rest House, a tastefully constructed complex with attractive brick cottages.
The Khanvel Forest Rest House is reserved for government staff, mainly forest department visitors, but it’s a good place for a wander around.
Many villages belonging to the main tribal groups – the Warli, Kokna and Dudhiyas – can be visited near Madhuban Dam.
One can see mud plastered houses with thached roofs, and spotted palias or totems depicting deities and heroes near their villages.
You should talk to your guide  about arranging to eat at one of the little villages you pass.
The tribal food available in villages is varied, with an interesting variety of vegetables, wild mushrooms  rotis made from various flours, fresh water crabs usuallu caught during the full moon, and river fish like rohu and carp.
Pioneer Hotel’s Polo Bar is on of the Silvassa’s most popular watering hotels, and known for its indian seafood dishes.