Darjeeling tea is loved the world over for its distinctive flavour, and Nathmulls is a great place to buy the finest.
Real tea lovers can even tell a Darjeeling Selimbong harvested in spring from the same tea picked in early summer or autumn!
If you prefer loose tea (which is cheaper), head to Chowk Bazaar. 
Habeeb Mullick & Sons, this historic curio shop, impossible to miss in the Mall, was set up in 1890 and has about it the look of Alladin’s cave, a dark interior draped with wood carvings, bronze and carpets. 
You can buy just about anything in the way of handicrafts there, although you may have to bargain. 
Take a dekko at the photograph behind the counter-they date from the shop’s early days when it used to trade in fur.
Tibetan Refugee Self-Help Center, set up in 1959, when the 13th Dalai Lama took refuge in India (you can see the foundations of his house), this centre has on offer outstanding carpets, thangkas, wood carving, metalwork and all kinds of Tibetan curios, including masks.
They make carpets to order and there are traditional workshops open to visitors.
For those who want to travel to beautiful, undisturbed natural areas, Jharkhand is a destination par excellence. 
Tourism is certainly not merely passing through an area here. 
It involves studying, appreciating, enjoying flora and fauna  and above all, knowing the culture of the original inhabitants of the area.
Jharkhand, in other words, is a kaleidoscope of nature tourism. 
The state has mesmerised many a visitor with its hills and numerous rivulets that gush down the slopes and waterfalls. 
It is best known for its lush green and dense forests, particularly the sal forests of saranda.
There are 11 National Park acrosse the state-tigers silently stalk in Palamau, elephants march majestically in Dalma and deer dash around everywhere. 
In adition, Jharkhand is a pilgrim’s privilege- Deogarh, Rajrappa, Jagnnath temple, Sun temple and Parasnath are just a few such place of reverence.
Sitting snug inside Betla National Park-a tiger reserve and one of the most thickly forested tracts in Jharkhand-is the quaint two-bedroom Tree House, advertised by nothing more than a rather dilapidated board. 
Athough the houses, with its rickety little verandah, are quite like a shack, its charm lies in, well, the fact that it is perched on a tree.
But all the minibars   and LCD panels in the world cannot compare with the stunning view of the forest that this place affords.
Wait for evening to see hundreds of spotted deer roaming amid the teak trees, their eyes glistering like diamonds in the night. 
Jump out of your bed in the morning and hop onto a jeep.
Keep an eye out for mouse deer and pangolins, visit the Palamau Fort near by and catch a bite to eat at the canteen in the other (touristier) lodge inside the park.  
The Kusumi Rest House, not too far from Betla National Park, is the tree house in Maromar. 
Sitting atop a Kusumi tree, this charming two-rooms lodging facility looks like something Robinson Crusoe might have built. 
Made entirely of wood, the rooms are comfortable and quite adequately equipped with modern facilities.
The swankiest hotel in the capital, Capitol Hill has the advantage of being in the heart of the city. 
With its shopping arcade and the trendy coffee shop on the mezzanine floor, this place is ideal from those who are looking for a more luxurious break. 
Each room has internet facilities, a well-stocked minibar and 24-hour room service. 
The restaurant serves good Continental, Chinese and tandoorie fare. 
Hotel Yuvraj calls itself only four star hotel in Ranchi, and the claim is quite justified. 
Yuvraj Palace site right in the heart of the city, and is a cool oasis from the heat and dust outside. 
Inside,  you will be greeted by a fine collection of Rajasthani Paintings and stay in elegant, well-appointed suites.  
Forest Bungalow Rest house, Right on the bank of the Barakar river, in the district of Koderma, this new pink-and-white rest houses is the closest that you will get to a beach house anywhere in the state.
The 12 rooms are pleasantly furnished and you can get a decent meal if you can inform the staff in advance. 
Enjoy splendid views of the reservoir, walk down the sandy banks or take a ride in the huge boats that can seat up to 20 people.
As far as locations go, it doesn’t get much better than this
Within Asia’s largest and densest sal forest lies the SAIL resthouse, the best lodging available in this scenic location.
Poised on top of a hill, this place offers wonderful views of the rising and setting sun. 
Walk in the shade of the statuesque trees and return in the evening to watch the forest slowly from gold to ebony. 
The Boulevard Hotel, Jamshedpur, conveniently located in the heart of Jamshedpur, this stately matron of a hotel has been around for more than 50 years. 
Walk out of the door and step right into the best shops in the swanky Bistupur area.
Palamau Bungalow, Netarhat, known as the ‘Queen of the Chhotanagpur Plateau’, Netarhat is famous for the sunrises and sunset views afforded from Magnolia Point.
As good a vantage point is this pretty bungalow, surrounded by pine and fruit trees. 
Go to the observatory to watch the rising sun turn the Koel River into a crimson ribbon.
Rather than stay at one of the few two or three star hotels in Hazaribagh town. 
I would suggest you wake up to the sound of birdsong in the Forest Rest house located inside the Hazaribagh National Park, which atop Canary Hill.
You need prior permission from the Divisional Forest Officer or Park Director who can be contacted in Hazaribagh town itself. 
You will find that it is worth the effort, spectacular view of the town and Hazaribagh Lake.
The French and Italians may wax eloquent about truffles, but the tribals of Jharkhand feel no need to look beyond the Phooto, a type of mushrooms that grows in the wild. 
It looks like pebbles, and is found only after monsoon showers (which is when you can see them being sold in village haats)
For the tribals, this delicacy is equivalent to having caviars and a medicinal tonic all rolled into one. 
People come especially to Koderma to buy these famous kalakands- delicious, sweet squares of thickened milk. 
Once you’ve tasted these calorie- rich treats, you will be a fan for life.
Four balls stuffed with ground and roasted back gram, the most authentic littis are baked in heap of cowdung cakes.
Handiya, forget about lager when you are in Jharkhand. The local fermented brew made of rice and herbs is a must try.
Followers of Bacchus will tell you that, taken in moderation, Handiya is a great health drink, but almost everyone drinks it for the express purpose of getting drunk. 
In most rural areas, you will find a Handia seller under every other tree. 
Priced at only Rs. 10 for a beer-bottle and Rs. 5 for a small bowl, inebriation has never come cheaper. 
Toss back the surprisingly tasty of toasted gram. 
A rich sweetmeat that is rather phallic in appearance, the Atom bomb is sold only in Kuru, a small town that falls mid-way between Ranchi and Daltonganj. 
Made of cottage cheese, these sinful concoctions are fried before they are dipped in pools of sugar syrup. 
Bara and Kachri, these what samosas are to the north.
Made of lentils (urad dal for bara and chana dal for kachri), the deep-fried Pakoras can be found in almost every tea stall. Dunk them in spicy chutney, and wash it all down with chai or a tumbler of handiya. 
The aroma of Kebabs will seduce you the moment you enter Ranchi’s Main Road. People flock to the street, especially in the evenings, for those melt-in-the-mouth treats.
You will find all varieties-from chewy seekhs to tender Shammis. 
The street is also peppered with bakeries, where you can choose from biscuits, cakes and sevaiyan, all of which have that underfinable homemade taste.
Chaat in Pujab Sweet House, Ranchi, this restaurant is known for its sweets, but it is chaat, dahi kachoris and samosas that it is truly and justly famous for. 
Drop in for breakfast, throw    caution to the winds, and tuck into a grand meal of puri and sabzi (the aloo curry is recommended) followed by a syrup desert of jalabis.
Dhuskas  a thick salty pancake that looks and tastes very different from a traditional dosa, Dhuskas are made of the same basic ingredients.
The rice and urad dal batter is left to ferment in the sun and then deep fried.
Note that dhuska is not eaten with any old sabzi; only with aloo dum or spicy mutton curry.
Chilka is a salted rice and lentil pancake that could put any crepe suzette to shame. It is made during festivities and is a must at Holi. However, it is not easy to obtain most of the time. 
Devotees come to Deoghar to pay obeisance at the Baidyanath Temple, but gourmands come here to buy the peda (flat, round milk sweet).
Unmatched in taste, they can be found in several small stalls lining the narrow streets. 
They say that Fakira has made a fortune by selling dalmoth, a savoury snack made from a mixture of roasted lentils and spices, true or not, once you start popping the stuff into your mouth, you will find it quite impossible to stop. 
They smell absolutely aweful, but bamboo shoots are put to good use in Jharkhand. 
Try the bamboo shoot pickle or add dried shoots to your vegetable gravy to give it a tangy edge. 
Walk into any of the weekly haats  and you will see piles of bamboo shoots being picked by every shopper.
Pickles are usually not available in the haats; they are made at home with mustard paste, chilli and garlic and soaked in pungent mustard oil; try to wangle an invitation from someone. 
Handcrafted mainly by the Malhar and Tentri tribes, dokra artifacts are primarily created from brass scrape. 
The exquisite objects created by these skilled craftspeople have a core of clay concealed within the metal casting. 
You will find everything from tiny deer and tortoises to large lamps and urns. 
Dokra handicrafts are available in many shops; buy them in the local haat.
One of the earliest forms of tribal art in India, Paitkar paintings feature intricate illustrations made on delicate scrolls, and often depict fanciful variations on the theme of life after death. 
Due to patronage, the art is dying, and the paintings are not available in most shops. 
A handful of small villages around Ranchi are known for the unusual handcrafted wooden dolls that they produce. 
These strange yet attractive dolls-brightly coloured human likenesses painted on a single piece of wood- are distinguished by their abstract appearance. 
Interestingly, the dolls are always made in pairs: a man and a woman. 
Chhau masks are worn by the traditional performers of the famous dance form of the same name.
These masks, ranging from 10-headed Ravanas to dainty Durga, also make for great wall decorations. It best buy the real thing in Seraikela Kharsawan where the dance originated. 
The very thin but flexible and strong variety of bamboo grown in Jharkhand is shaped into beautifully crafted baskets, containers and even fish-traps by the tribals. 
Tribal jewellery, designed vary from region to region, but they are always made of silver. 
The special ones are wide, cunkey bracelets called choor. Earrings with flat chains that go over the ears and the pretty string of three chains, embellished with a flower-shaped clasp. 
Bulu Imam runs Sanskriti to preserve and promote indigenous art and culture. 
Visit for the ambience as well as the exquisite handicrafts, representative of several tribes, on display. 
This place encapsulates the essences of Jharkhand’s vibrant and colourful tribal culture. 
Literally, Manipur means the land of jewels. 
Rightly so, as Manipur is also what Lord Irwin called the ‘Switzerland of India’.
Hemmed by Nagaland in the north, Mizoram in the south. Assam in the west and Myanmar in the east, Manipur undulating hills, verdant valleys, floating island and enchanting woods are sights to behold and cherish. 
This land, where several communities live in harmony, is also famous for its orchids and classical dance form.