West Sumatra lakes include: Maninjau (99.5 km2), Singkarak (130.1 km2), Diatas (31.5 km2), Dibawah (14.0 km2), Talang (5.0 km2).
West Sumatra rivers include: Kuranji, Anai, Ombilin, Suliki, Arau. The mountains & volcanoes of West Sumatra are included: Marapi (2,891 m), Sago (2,271 m), Singgalang (2,877 m), Talakmau (2,912 m), Talang (2,572 m), Tandikat (2,438 m).
The temperature of West Sumatra province has ranges between 22o C and 32o C, and the rainfall is 2,289 mm per year.
West Sumatra Province is divided among 8 regencies and 6 municipals with Padang as its capital city.
The people of this province have a strong tradition leaving their hometown to make their way of life. Indeed, West Sumatra communities (Minang) are easily found in each province of Indonesia.
In 1994, the total population reached 4,265,900 people with its density amounted to 101 people per Km2
In the 1990-1994 periods, the people grew at a rate 1.6% per year or in the lower level that of the population national growth amounted to 2.144% per year.
The best way to experience Nepal's unbeatable combination of natural beauty and cultural riches is to walk through them
To trek, one does not have to be brave, a mountaineer nor an athlete. Anyone who is sound and healthy with the spirit for adventure to explore the exotic, will enjoy the thrills of trekking in the hills of Nepal.
The magnificent scene of the world's highest peaks seen during trekking are marvellous and trekkers make it a memory for life.
Green valleys with turbulent rivers, rhododendron forests teeming with countless wildlife are aside.
Hindu and Buddhist temples, shrines, monasteris and religious sacred places along the trekking routes enable to give more than insight into the spiritual life and history of Nepal and will remain a memorable experience in life.
Trekking can be done from October to May, however the best months are October and November The country's mountainous, hilly and Terai regions offer some of the most spectacular trekking in the world.
The Khumbu region of Nepal is one of the best-known treks in the world.
Khumbu region is the land of the Sherpa people and the world's great 8,000 meter peaks.
Many trekkers walk in from the roadhead at Jiri, through the lovely rolling hills of the Solu region.
Others fly in to the village of Lukla to start their trek.
A few days above Lukla is the entrance to the Sagarmatha National Park and the town of Namche Bazaar, where most trekkers take a day to acclimatize to the high altitude.
From here one may branch towards the village of Thame or continue on to take on of the two main Khumbu routes, to Gokyo Lake or towards the Everest base camp.
Beyond Namche Bazaar is the Sherpa village of Khumjung and further on the famous monastery of Thyangboche.
Here the Mani Rimdu festival of dances is celebrated every year.
Just to the north of Kathmandu are two lovely regions where one may experience Tamang and Sherpa life, temperate forest and alpine pastures, glaciers, lakes and snowy peaks.
Helambu valley noted for its scenic grandeur and pleasant climate, lie in the north of the Kathmandu Valley.
One can stay in highland monastery villages and small settlements in pristine forests.
Above Helambu is a mountain pass through the lakes of Gosainkunda reaching the valley of Langtang.
It is sacred to Lord Shiva and every summer there throng thousands of Hindu devotees to take a holy dip into the waters of the holy lake.
Nearby are other lakes including Nagkunda, Bhairavkunda, Saraswatikunda and Suryakunda.
The trek passes through a varied landscape ranging from evergreen forests, cascading waterfalls and turbulent streams to sub-alpine grasslands and stark, beautiful mountainsides.
Langtang valley stretches north of Gosainkunda The trek passes through a varied landscape ranging from evergreen forests, cascading waterfalls and turbulent streams to sub-alpine grasslands and stark, beautiful mountainsides.
One can hike to the back of the valley or take numerous optional trips to explore glacier-filled side canyons.
Nepal's most popular trek begins at the lakeside town of Pokhara and leads six or seven days north-west around the Annapurna Massif, through dramatic changes in landscape, climate and culture to the high village of Jomsom, near the isolated land of Mustang.
Trekkers often continue on to the sacred shrine of Muktinath, near the 5,415-meter Thorang-La pass and down into the lovely valley of Manang.
The route through Manang circles the Annapurna back to the Kathmandu-Pokhara highway.
The Annapurna circuit takes one through terraced hills, forests and alpine pastures and through the villages of a number of different cultures.
North of Pokhara is an area protected by the Annapurna Conservation Area Project, tucked beneath the southern slopes of the Annapurna Massif.
The Sanctuary is an easy trek from Pokhara and takes one through some of Nepal's most lovely rhododendron forests to the Annapurna base camp.
There are also numerous one or two day treks out of Pokhara town, where one can have views of Dhaulagiri, the Annapurna range, Manaslu and Ganesh Himal.
On the far eastern border of Nepal lies Mt. Kanchenjunga (8586m), the third highest peak in the world.The valley approaching the mountain base camp has been opened to trekking, specifically for organized treks.
The long trek to the lap of Kangchenjunga takes one through some of the country's richest and most pristine forests.
The region is quite uninhabited, so the visitor must bring along all food and camping equipment.
Most groups fly in and out of Taplejung, which requires a plane change from Biratnagar.
You could also walk to Taplejung from Basantapur which takes about three days.
Two separate routes head northeastwards from Taplejung, one to the North Base Camp, the other to the South Base Camp. These routes can be combined into a circuit.
The trek to Rara Lake begins at Jumla, a village in a trans-Himalayan valley with high rides covered with forests and alpine pastures.
The town has an airstrip and tele-communication facilities.
The flight from Kathmandu to Jumla passes south along the Dhaulagiri range and provides lovely views of Nepal's western landscape.
It is a three and half day's trek from Jumla to Rara National Park.
Rara Lake (2,990 m.) has an area of nearly ten square kilometers and is surrounded with hills of pines and rhododendrons. The peaceful surroundings are enhanced by the reflections of the surrounding hills in the lake's bright blue waters.
Due north, Chankheli peak (3,201 m.) looms large across the deep Mugu Karnali gorge.The usual itinerary is a loop that starts and ends at Jumla and the entire trek takes about ten days. Food has to bring from Jumla but beyond the bazaar it is often unavailable.
There are lodges in Jumla and a bunk house at the lake, in between there are tea houses where you could stay, but camping is more pleasant and certainly more reliable.
One of the newest areas of Nepal open to trekkers is the southern part of Shey-Phoksundo National Park.
Reached in about a week from Jumla, the centre of attraction is lovely Lake Phoksundo, famous for the ever-changing colors of its waters.
Here one steps on to the edge of the trans-Himalayan plateau that extends from Tibet down into Nepal.
This is the region of some of Nepal's most remarkable wildlife, including the blue sheep, the serow and the snow leopard.Peter Matthieseu's "The Snow Leopard" and Snellgrove's "Himalayan Pilgrimage" have contributed in revealing the mystery and attraction of Dolpo.
Dolpo lies between Dhorpatan and Rara and two of those treks could be combined into a single tour from Pokhara to Jumla.
Dolpo trek on its own takes one to two weeks, assuming you fly there in and out of Dunai.
Everyone heads north from there, entering the park after about a day and reaching the lake after two days.
A few houses in the region offer shelter but it's a food deficit area , so you will need to be self-sufficient.
Capital of Nepal, the mystical valley-Kathmandu is Nepal's biggest and most cosmopolitan city, a meeting place of a dozen ethnic groups, and the home town of the Newars.
The ancient city of Patan, lying 5 km southeast of Kathmandu, is known as the city of fine arts.
The diversity of the medieval culture has left a rich legacy of impressive sightseeing in Patan city for today's visitors.
Situated at an altitude of 1,401 m, Bhaktapur  (or Bhadgaon as popularly know as)  covers an area of four square miles
Bhaktapur or "the City of Devotees" still retains the medieval charm and visitors to this ancient town are treated myriad wonders of cultural and artistic achievements. 
If Kathmandu is the cultural hub of Nepal, Pokhara is its center of adventure.
An enchanting city nestled in a tranquil valley; it is the starting point for many of Nepal's most popular trekking and rafting destinations.
The township of Tansen bears a rich legacy of the traditional art and architecture.
Perched on the lap of the spectacular Srinagar Danda (hill) Tansen, commands a gorgeous panorama of the Himalayas as well as the plains of Terai.
Gorkha is a scenic hill- town with great historical significance Situated on a small hillock at an attitude of about 1000 m, Gorkha offers panoramic view of snow-fed mountain
A visit to Nepal remains incomplete without seeing the beauty of the Terai.
The Royal Chitwan National Park, established in 1973, provides a great wildlife experience with its rich flora and fauna
Lumbini-a place in the South-Western Terai of Nepal, evokes a kind of holy sentiment to the millions of Buddhists all over the world, Lumbini and its surrounding area is endowed with a rich natural setting.
Named after the legendary King Janak, Janakpur was the capital of the ancient Indian Kingdom Mithila, the native country of goddess Sita, the wife of the Hindu god Rama and the heroine of the great Hindu epic Ramayana.
Today Janakpur stands as the most cleanest and interesting place among all the towns of Terai.
Nepal - a country of amazing extremes is the home of the world's highest mountains, historic cities and the forested plains where the lordly tigers and the great one- horned rhinoceros trundle at ease.
Nepal, a sovereign independent Kingdom, is bounded, on the North by the Tibetan Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China, the east-south and west by  India.
The length of the Kingdom of Nepal is 885 kilometres east-west and its breadth varies from 145-241 kilometers north-south.
The low-land Terai oceupies about 17 percent of the total land area of the country.
There is no seasonal constraint on traveling in and through Nepal, Even in December and January, when the winter is at its severest, there are compensating bright sun and brilliant views.
Nepal-a country with a long historic tradition is an amalgamation of a number of medieval principalities.
Before the campaign of national integration launched by King Prithvi Narayan Shah the Kathmandu Valley was ruled by the Malla Kings, whose contributions to art and culture are indeed great and unique.
In 1768 AD the Shah dynasty ascended the throne of the unified kingdom. His Majesty King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev, is tenth King in the Shah dynasty.
The new democratic constitution of the kingdom was promulgated on November 9, 1990. Nepal is one of the founder members of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation SAARC of which the third summit was held in Kathmandu in November 1987.
Nepal has a population of more than 18 million people made of different races living in different regions, with diverse culture, languages and dialects. 
The Gurungs and Magars live mainly in the west. While the Rais, Limbus and Sunuwars inhabits the slopes and valleys of the Eastern mid hills.
The Sherpas live in the Himalayan region, but the Newars constitute an important ethnic group of the capital valley Kathmandu.
There are Tharus, Yadavas, Satar, Rajvanshis and Dhimals in the Terai region. The Brahmans, Chhetris and Thakuris are spread generally over all parts of the Kingdom.
Hinduism and Buddhism constitute two major religions of Nepal.
A remarkable feature of Nepal is the religious homogeneity what exists, particularly between the Hindu and Buddhist Communities.
Apart from the Hindus and Buddhists, Muslim from the third largest religious group.
The exquisite medieval Art & Architecture of the Kathmandu Valley vividly reflect the artistic ingenuity and the religious tradition of the people.
Nepali, serves the purpose of the kingdom's lingua franca in Nepal while the educated people speak and understand English as well.
Nepal has four climatic seasons (a) Spring : March-May(b) Summer : June-August(c) Autumn : September-November(d) Winter : December-February.The average temperature and rainfall records in Kathmandu are presented hereunder.
Clothing depends on place and time, however, it is recommended to have both light and warm clothing.
In the mountain areas warm clothes are generally a must.
The National Museum located on the way to Swayambhunath Hill is most popular among the Kathmandu people. It holds not only ancient artifacts, but also interesting mementos of recent kings and recently used firearms.
A visitor to the museum will understand much about the way wars were fought in this part of the world and the type of firearms that were used to conquer Nepal and later to protect it from the British Raj.
Other artifacts include ancient statues, paintings, and murals. You may be interested in the doll collection as well as the stuffed animals there.
The collection of coins in the complex includes coins going back to the second century BC as well as excellent samples from dynasties that ruled Nepal after the birth of Christ.
Timings of the museum are as under:From 10:30 am to 3 pm, except on Tuesdays and govt. holidays. From 10:30 am to 2 pm, on Fridays.
This palace was the main seat of the Shah kings for many years. Here is an exhibit that highlights the life of King Tribhuvan.