Singapore's Chinatown evolved around 1821 when the first Chinese junk arrived from Xiamen, Fujian province in China.
The passengers, all men, set up home around the south of the Singapore River which is known today as Telok Ayer.
Geylang Serai is the cultural heart of the Malay community in Singapore.
At the Malay Village, go back in time and discover the traditional 'Kampung Days' lifestyle of Malays in the 1950s and 1960s.
Named after the Gelam tree which used to grow in the area, Kampong Glam was the historic seat of Malay royalty in Singapore.
Today, the former Istana Kampong Glam (Sultan’s palace) has been converted into a heritage museum, the Malay Heritage Centre, to showcase the rich history and culture of Singapore’s Malay community.
Are you a foodie and looking for something different to do during your visit to Singapore?
A food tour to discover the rich heritage and food culture in Singapore might just be the thing for you.
Join the Uniquely Singapore Shop & Eat Tour and fill your stomachs with the most delightful local cuisine as you venture through the city’s ethnic districts and neighborhoods.
Kusu Island, a giant sea turtle saves two shipwrecked sailors – Malay and a Chinese.
As an act of thanks, the two men build a Chinese temple, a Malay shrine and a huge turtle sculpture.
PulauUbin, this rustic village is a reflection of days gone by, when life was simpler.
Try leisure walking or cycling to enjoy the natural vegetation and laidback kampong ambience of this quaint island.
Sentosa – a themed attraction, tropical resort, nature park and heritage centre all rolled into one.
A former penal settlement, St John's Island large hilly island has been transformed into the perfect locale for a weekend get-away, with swimming lagoons, beaches, picnic grounds, trekking routes and soccer fields.
Having undergone a spectacular facelift as a national heritage site, CHIJMES (pronounced “chimes”) is now a popular dining, shopping and entertainment site.
CHIJMES Hall, the restored chapel, provides a breath-taking backdrop for musicals, recitals, theatrical performances and weddings.
In harmony with the historic Singapore River area at Empress Place, Dalhousie Obelisk stately monument was built to commemorate the visit to Singapore in 1850 by Marquis Dalhousie, Governor-General of India.
Care to meet the President in his home? If you’re lucky, you just might! The Istana (or “palace” in Malay) is the official residence of the President of Singapore and just five times a year; its gates are open to members of the public.
Built in 1894, Lau Pa Sat is the largest remaining Victorian filigree cast-iron structure in Southeast Asia.
Lau Pa Sat is located in the heart of Singapore's business district; the former wet market has been restored and is now a favourite food centre of the locals, offering a wide and affordable variety of local food.
The Merlion was first designed as an emblem for the Singapore Tourism Board (STB) in 1964 – the lion head with a fish body resting on a crest of waves quickly became Singapore’s icon to the rest of the world.
As its name suggests, the Asian civilizations Museum focuses on the heritage of Asian cultures.
The first wing (ACM I), located at Armenian Street, is a meticulously restored neo-classical building dating back to 1910.
The Changi Chapel museum is a beacon of hope for the hopeless.
The Changi Chapel, housed within the open-air courtyard of the Museum, is a symbolic replica of the many chapels built during the Japanese Occupation.
Chinatown Heritage Centre, life of the ethnic Chinese in early Singapore was simple and almost everyone lived in rented cubicles of shop houses, which were often overcrowded and disease-stricken.
The Chinese Heritage Centre (CHC) was founded in 1995 to advance knowledge and understanding of the Chinese Overseas communities in different parts of the world.
Hua Song, meaning "In praise of the Chinese Community", is a museum that brings to life the rich heritage that overseas Chinese around the world share.
Do you know there are over 200 real working farms in the six Agrotechnology Parks in Singapore, occupying a total land area of 1,500 hectares?
Bounded by the land and manpower constraints, farms practise modern intensive farming that suits the tropical climate.
Bukit Timah Nature Reserve may surprise many to know that the small city-state of Singapore is only one of two cities in the world to have a significant area of primary rainforest within its boundaries – the other being Rio de Janeiro.
For environmentalists and conservationists, Chek Jawa is a gem of marine wildlife.
Located at the eastern tip of Pulau Ubin, Chek Jawa is a collection of six distinct habitats - coastal forest, mangroves, sand bars, seagrass lagoon, rocky shore & coral rubble.
Some of these habitats can be found at Pulau Sekudu, which is considered part of Chek Jawa.
Step into the Chinese Garden and you might just imagine you’re in ancient China! Built in 1975 and designed by Prof Yuen-chen Yu, a well-known architect from Taiwan.
The Chinese Garden is modeled along the northern Chinese imperial style of architecture and landscaping.
Looking for a one-stop family fun site? It has to be East Coast Park.
Located off the East Coast Parkway, the beach and landscaped terrains make East Coast Park a weekend favourite for Singaporeans.
Tucked away from the bustle of Little India, Adul Gaffoor mosque was completed in 1910 and recently restored.
The main entrance of Adul Gaffoor mosque boasts an elaborate pediment, the center of which is a sundial.
The Armenian Church in Hill Street is credited with being the oldest church in Singapore.
Built in 1835 and designed by colonial architect, George Coleman, the church is regarded as Coleman’s masterpiece and is dedicated to St Gregory the Illuminator.
The Buddha Tooth Relic Temple & Museum is a living cultural monument in the heart of Chinatown housing the Sacred Buddha Tooth Relic in a magnificent Relic Stupa composed of 420kg of gold donated by devotees.
The chief place of worship for Singapore’s 15,000 Sikhs, the Central Sikh Temple was built to commemorate the 518th anniversary of Guru Nanak, the first Sikh guru.
The Central Sikh temple boasts a skilful blend of modern and traditional architecture
Built in 1846, the Hajjah Fatimah Mosque is named after a Malacca-born Malay who married a wealthy Bugis Sultan.
Although the Hajjah Fatimah Mosque exhibits a combination of architectural influences, it has a decidedly British flavour
If you’re strolling along the Singapore River and do a double take, that might be because you suddenly find yourself confronted by some life-like and life-size bronze sculptures.
Looking for a swingin’ good time? Then head on down to Boat Quay - the trailblazer of the Singapore entertainment scene.
Shop, eat and be entertained by the riverside! Featuring five blocks of restored warehouses, Clarke Quay offers a quirky alternative to mainstream attractions, with second-hand and antique shops, flea markets and restaurants with an amazing array of F&B options.
A more laid-back cousin to Boat Quay, Robertson Quay offers a more tranquil ambience for dining and entertainment by the Singapore River.
Housing a string of hotels hugging the river against a background of the old go-downs of Singapore, Robertson Quay is the perfect locale for an evening out.
Singaporeans are passionate about food and eating.
Look around and the proof is everywhere! Almost in every corner of the island, you will find an endless variety of food, served hot or cold, at any hour of the day (or night).
In this cosmopolitan and multicultural city, you can expect nothing less than a melange of flavours from around the globe.
It’s not just East-meets-West when it comes to feasting in Singapore – it is a tasty tale about a country’s unique cultural tapestry woven in with its distinct influences to capture the essence of Singapore’s multicultural heritage.
Let’s embark on a gastronomic journey of local fare that uniquely distinguishes Singapore as a food capital of Asia.
Off the beaten track near the Eastern tip of Singapore, Changi Village is a sleepy district in contrast to the bustling city.
The local beach of Changi Village, attracts fishermen and bathers alike, especially on weekends.
Dubbed the “bohemian enclave” of Singapore, Holland Village is a microcosm of Singapore life, a curious mix between old and new.
Traditional coffee shops and a wet market jostle for space aside ritzy wine bars and fine dining restaurants.
The distinctive charm of Katong can be traced back to its Peranakan roots.
Katong a quiet residential area formerly dominated by wealthy Straits Chinese families or the Peranakans, many of the older Peranakan homes in Katong, once seaside villas, still stand tall and picturesque.
Tampines (pronounced “Tam-pe-nees”), a HDB (public housing) estate in the eastern part of Singapore, has the distinction of having won the coveted United Nations World Habitat Award for Excellent Housing Design.
One of Singapore's earliest public housing estates, Toa Payoh has developed a distinctive character through the years.
Toa Payoh the area bustles with activity and is a great place to soak in the local lifestyle.
From 7.30pm, 20 December 2006, Singaporeans and visitors can be part of a new ambient lighting experience and get across the Bideford junction (area bounded by Park Hotel at Orchard, Meritus Mandarin Hotel and Ngee Ann City) from any direction they like.
Feel Like Getting High? Catch panoramic views across Singapore, Sentosa and the Southern Islands from Singapore’s highest viewing platform, Carlsberg Sky Tower.
Climb on board Singapore's first helium balloon DHL ride - a novel way to take in the wondrous sounds and beautiful cityscape of Singapore.
The DHL Balloon - the world’s largest tethered helium balloon designed in France.
Welcome to the land where the fun never ends! A self-contained entertainment district, Downtown East offers a comprehensive mix of over 40 food and beverage, entertainment and specialty retail outlets.
Singapore’s first ever bungy! Be launched skywards at 200km per hour to a dazzling height of 60 meters.
Experience G forces similar to those experienced by astronauts in a rocket launch, all in the safety of the latest G-MAX technology.
Built in 1937 by the entrepreneurial and charismatic Aw Boon Haw for his brother Boon Par, Haw Par Villa is the quintessential house of Chinese folklore.
Lilliputin door mini golf, fancy golfing next to the control tower at Singapore Changi Airport? Now you can.
Our NEWater is one that has stirred a variety of reactions in Singapore and elsewhere.
Sentosa 4D Magix presents to you the interactive experience with 4-dimensional digital effects.
The latest addition to Imbiah Lookout’s cluster of attractions, it is also Southeast Asia’s first 4D theatre.
The first ever Luge in Southeast Asia. Part go-cart, part-toboggan, pure excitement - the luge is a fun-filled gravity ride that's safe for all ages
Certified by the World Minigolf Sport Federation, the 18-hole miniature golf courses at the Sijori WonderGolf are uniquely landscaped with shrewd designs, wicked slopes and obscured obstacles to test the skills and dexterity of the avid golfer.
See the whole of Singapore from a unique vantage point, right under your feet! An exclusive, giant aerial photograph gives you a panoramic view of Singapore without climbing great heights.
Spanning a total floor area of 4,500 square metres, the new Singapore Discovery Centre consists of 5 main galleries around 8 different themes.
Guests will be able to immerse themselves in Singapore’s past, present and future, travelling through time to key moments in our nationhood and experiencing them “as they happen”.
Singapore Flyer offers you breathtaking, 360° panoramic views of Singapore and beyond (opening in early 2008).
Located at Marina Bay, Singapore Flyer sits astride a three-storey Retail Terminal with an exciting array of retail and F&B choices.
A central atrium opens out to a lush tropical rainforest, while an open-air theatre hosts live performances.
For budding scientists, the world-acclaimed Singapore Science Centre will keep your mind racing with more than 1,000 interactive exhibits depicting the wonder and beauty of science.
Cable skiing or wakeboarding as its name implies, is waterskiing or wakeboarding where the participants are not pulled by a boat but by an overhead cable, very similar to a snow ski lift, but erected around the banks of a lake.
Snow in tropical Singapore? No, you’re not dreaming! At Snow City, Singapore’s first indoor snow centre, you can experience real snow, a sub-zero climate and a three-storey high snow slope.
Fall under the spell of Sentosa Island’s latest nightly multi-sensory extravaganza.
TigerLIVE sets to ignite your senses at St James Power Station as the ultimate brewery experience.
TigerLIVE promises a truly innovative and multi-sensory experience that will bring to life that unique taste of the beer that is enjoyed all over the world.
Horse racing in Singapore has had a long and illustrious history, beginning in 1842 with the formation of the Singapore Sporting Club by a group of racing enthusiasts.
Tucked into the hillside of Fort Canning is the Battle Box, the largest underground command centre of the British Malaya Command Headquarters during World War II.
Comprising 22 rooms the Battle Box is linked by a corridor, this complex is bomb-proof and also capable of recycling its own air supply.
The Changi Chapel, housed within the open-air courtyard of the Museum, is a symbolic replica of the many chapels built during the Japanese Occupation.
Civilian War Memorial was erected to remember the shared experiences and struggles of the major races of Singapore during World War II.
Every year on 15 February, a memorial service is held here to remember the victims of the war.
Built by the British in the 1880s to protect the western entrance to the Singapore harbour, Fort Siloso is the only preserved British coastal fortification in Singapore today.