Castle Pachar, Sekhawati, is more like and old family haveli than an opulent palace and It wears a cloak of faded charm that instantly puts you at ease.
Guest  tend to converge to the colourful Rang Mahal, a hall decorated with family heirlooms, on winter evenings while the neat lawns dotted with trees draw you out during he day.
Lake Palace of Udaipur is stunning beautiful Palace seems straight out of a fairy style and promises an once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Lake Place is built on a small island in the middle of the Lake Pichola; this 18th century palace makes a great romantic gateway, especially in winter.
The brainchild of French fashion designer Michele Klein, Hotel Kill Bhavan, sits on the ramparts of Jaisalmer’s magnificent sandstone fort.
One of the largest private residences in the world, Umaid Bhawan Palace was the first Indian Palace to use air conditioned and elevators.
An outstanding example of Art Deco architecture, Umaid Bhawan Palace’s grandness continues well into the interiors, with rich paintings depicting scenes from the Ramayan, richly decorated ceilings and antique furniture.
Alwar’s Amanbagh a fine example of Mughal architecture, meaning ‘a peaceful garden’, is one of the most luxurious stay options in all of Rajasthan.
Take your pick from Pool Pavilions Courtyard Haveli, Garden Haveli and Terrace Haveli rooms in Amanbagh, so named for the fine views that they afford.
Where most heritage resorts in Rajasthan revel in their vibrant, over-the-top interiors, Devigarh Udaipur is one steers clear of all such frivolous ostentation.
Every inch a Devigarh Rajput fort, complex with towers, turrets and battlements, the interiors are another story.
You are sure to be surprised but definitely soothed by the cool, neutral tones of your suite.
Located on the outskirts of Jaipur, Choki Dhani is a five star village resort with beautifully designed huts and royal suites.
Spread over 10 acres, Chokhi Dhani ethnic village comes complete with painted mud-plastered walls, antique furniture, clay pots, puppets and much more.
It is rare to find a luxury campsite built around a water body in the heart of Rajasthan’s desert land and that’s precisely why Chhatra Sagar Pali, scores. 
In Udaipur the glacial white Shiv Niwas Palace looks especially spectacular in the harsh light of the summer sun.
Inside of Shiv Niwas Palace is a veritable treasure trove of antique furniture, spectacular chandeliers, portraits of the royal family and amazing collection of original paintings and miniatures. 
Dundlod Fort is 200 year old fort with 24 rooms frames a spacious courtyard.
Each room offers brilliant views from the balcony.
You are sure to appreciate the period furniture and the vast library of Dundlod Fort.
You can even go riding if you like Thakur Raghuvendra Singh, the present owner of Dundlod Fort, keeps a good stable.
If you’re planning to go tiger tracking in Ranthambore, make Sher Bagh your base-you’ll just love staying in these luxury tents.
Designed like the luxury Shamianas both Rajput and Mughal rulers preferred when on Shikaar, they promise all the modern amenities you could ask for.
Sensitively restored and tasteful renovated, Neemrana Fort Palace stands well away from the hustle and bustle of big cities, near Alwar.
Each room of Neemrana Palace comes with a refreshing view of the Aravali range.
As we all know Rajputs were prolific hunters who took great pleasure in enjoying the spoils of their hunts, mutton, of course, was preferred to chicken and the Kachawaha clan of Jaipur even came up with its own signature recipe Safed Maans, mutton cooked in a rich curry of cashew nuts, almonds, fresh coconut, white pepper and poppy seeds.
Pyaaz Kachoris from Jodhpur are sinfully rich and, eaten with a steaming cup of tea, will send you straight to heaven.
The sweet Mawa Kachori is first stuffed with dry fruit, then deep fried and finally dipped in sugar syrup.
The saly Pyaaz Kachori is stuffed with onions and potatoes and deep fried.
Try Janta Sweet Home or Jodhpur Sweet, both near the railway station, Jodhpur.
Because of its arid land, Rajasthan cannot sustain many vegetables; hence some of the state’s best known vegetarian dishes rely on the use of Besan (gram flour).
The most popular, Gatte ki Sabzi, is Besan dumplings dunked in a gravy of onion and curd.
Linked irrevocably with the monsoon festival of Teej, a Ghevar is a round Maida cake sweetened with sugar syrup,
Several variations, including Ghevar with Khoya, cream or paneer are also available these days.
Buy from the famous Laxmi Mishthan Bhandar, better known as LMB, at Jogri Bazar in Jaipur.
No Indian is a stranger to the Bhujjias and savouries of Bikaner.
Thanks to Haldiram’s, these Bhujjias are now available across the country.
In Bikaner, try the Papads and Vadis as well all widely available across the city.
Pushkar is known the world over for its colored cattle fair, but its delicious, melt in your mouth Malpuas are still a well kept secret.
Hundreds of sweet shops string up every year during the fair, where you can try these pancakes (Malpuas) made of refined flour dipped in sugar syrup.
When the royal family of Mewar was forced to take to the jungles to escape Mughal onslaught, they devised a type of barbecue food called Sula.
As you walk the streets that lead to the Chishti Dargah, Ajmer, you’ll spot several shops selling the city’s fabled Sohan Halwa, a grainy rich sweet that with just the right amount of sugar.
Dal-Baati-Churma, is typical Rajasthani fare, made with flour, lentils, ghee, spices and jaggery.
A Baati is round ball of bread made from either maize, millet or wheat flour, with generous dollops of ghee and it is eaten with a spicy Dal.
The meal is rounded off with choorma, a dessert made by pounding bread with jaggery or sugar and ghee.
Tilonia is distant village in the district of Ajmer is known the world over for its Barefoot College, a project dedicated to sustainable community development.
Tilonia’s artisans create traditional handicrafts with a contemporary touch.
From camel leather Jooties through bags, low chairs with embroidered backs and three legged stools, quilts, you are sure to find something just right for you.
The art of making blue glazed pottery came to Rajasthan via Kashmir.
Made of crushed quartz, fuller’s earth and sodium sulphate, and fired in kilns at very high temperature, Chinese glazing technology is used in conjunction with Persian decorative arts.
Once the mugs, vases, bowls, urns, doorknobs and other artifacts are fired, they are hand painted in various shades of blue.
There’s something magical about the Jaipuri Razai, it is extremely warm despite being unbelievably light.
Carpet and Dhurries weaving is an ancient craft that can be traced back to Afghanistan.
The best Dhurries can be bought in Bikaner, hand knotted carpets in Jaipur. And Namdahs in Tonk.
Aesthetically molded clay pots and pans can be seen in every rural household in Rajasthan.
Over the years, potters have moved from making utilitarian products to those with high ornamental value.
Molela near Udaipur known for its wall plawues, Pokhran for its tiny terracotta bells, Alwar for Kagzi (paper thin) pottery, and Bikaner for painted pottery tinted with the red of lac.
Jaipur and Udaipur are famous for the setting of gems in gold by the age old technique of Kundan.
Some of the most exquisite pieces of Mughal and Rajput jewellery, it’s impossible to tell the motifs of one from the other as the styles have merged completely.
From handcrafted Jooties to saddles and pouches, camel hide has been put to several uses in Rajasthan.
Bikaner is particularly known for its gesso work camel hide handicrafts such as lampshades, traditional flasks and perfume bottles.
The hide is first scraped till it is as thin as paper, then molded and painted in bright colors and gold, using a special technique.
When in Jodhpur, don’t just drool over the gorgeous fabrics.
Spare a moment to appreciate the age old Badalas (zinc alloy pitchers used to carry water) that were carried on long journeys till appearance everywhere.
The old city is a good place to buy leather goods, jewellery, and Jooties.
Visit to Jaipur’s Gem Palace for the fabled jewellery worn by Rajasthan’s Maharajas and princelings; one should buy the finest attar in tiny glass bottles available in Jodhpur’s many busy bylanes.
Brilliantly sequined leather Jooties fashioned from camel hide, near Udaipur; and on of the favorite places to shop in the capital is then Anokhi, for beautiful block printed, vegetable dyed fabric.
Pichwais are cloth paintings, rich in color and detail, which are traditionally used as backdrops for the Krishna idol at the Nathdwara Temple.
Modern day Pichwais tend to use a lot of gold and semi precious stones, and will be a valuable addition to your art collection.
Pushkar is a great place to buy all things antique think silver jewellery, embroidered fabrics, Angarakhas with genuine gold thread embroidery, ornate saddles and more.
Everything here seems to belong to another age, but don’t forget to haggle.
If you love collecting saris, you must buy yourself several from this artistically rich state.
Sanganeri block printed fabric is known the world over for its quality, color and design and that pretty much makes a Sanganeri (Jaipur and Sanganer) sari irresistible.
Bagru (Jaipur and Bagru village) saris, which use only natural, eco-friendly colors.
There’s the diaphanous cotton Kota Doriya, prefect for summer.
Brightly coloured lac bangles, handmirrors, pens, pillboxes and incense stands are a cheerful and inexpensive buy in Rajasthan.
In the pink city of Jaipur, lac trinkets studded with glass gems and metal spirals are commonly available.
Replcas of antique wood furniture are produced in several Rajasthani cities.
You can find anything from intricately carved doors through windows, Jharokhas, and tabletops to swings.
Jodhpur and Ramgarh isn’t eh Shekhawati region are your best bets.
You can source painted chairs from Kishangarh and string bottom chairs from Shekhawati.
You can’t go anywhere in Rajasthan without encountering someone selling puppets.
Most have wooden painted in gaudy fabric and the best places to buy puppets are near Hawa Mahal in Jaipur, so just walk around till you find one you like.
Zari is gold, and Zardozi embroidery is the glitteringly ornate, heavily encrusted gold thread work practiced in Jaipur.
Either real silver thread gold plated thread or an imitation that has a copper base gilded with gold or silver colour, is used for Zari.
Traditionally made fore Mughal and Rajput nobility, it has now been officially adopted as bridal wear by any one who can afford it.
Uttar Pradesh is a unique world in itself.
Thanks to its rich culture, crafts and cuisine, it is one of the hottest tourist destinations in India.
There is of course the magnificent Taj Mahal to be seen, but the state is also famous for its holy shrines and pilgrim spot.
There are rich and tranquil expanses of meadows, perennial rivers and dense forests to be found here.
Steeped in history and myth, Uttar Pradesh is un paralleled.
For a taste of the mighty epics, plunge into the Mahabharata at Hastinapur, or visit Ayodhya and chitrakoot for a glimpse into the Ramayana, 
Come to Mathura, whrere Lord Krishna is believed to have been born, or follow the famous Buddhist trail from Piprahwa to Kushinagar.
Make a journey for your soul to one of the oldest cities of the world, the beautiful and enchanting Varanasi.
Head of Vindhyachal mountains and the vastly scenic Chunar and Sonbhadra, especially in the monsoons when the waterfalls spring to life.
Don’t forget to indulge your tastebuds in Lucknow, with its Nawabi cuisine and delectable Dum Pukht dishes slow cooked to perfection.
Uttar Pradesh truly is a place of magic and mystery, with its forts and palaces, legends and folklore, rich heritage and even richer cuisine.
We hope you will enjoy your stay in Uttar Pradesh.
Uttar Pradesh is one state where I have truly gone berserk over the food.
Uttar Pradesh is one place to totally indulge yourself, especially if you are looking at tasting something different from the usual fare.