Arunachal’s charms are many, and lie in it wide-open spaces and changing topography.
From mountains and plains to lush tea gardens and forests, a fascinating tribal culture rich in music, food and dance, this is a State where you will learn some of life’s most important lessons while on holiday. 
Even a week would not be enough to fully experience the beauty and sheer variety of all that Arunachal has to offer. 
I am sure that the memories that you carry back from Arunachal will be truly special.
A short drive from the airport in Itanagar, Donyi Polo Ahoke can be confidently called the best accommodation option in the whole of Arunachal Pradesh- in the conventional sense. 
Don’t get carried away by its grand status of being the only five star hotel in the state though; this is a simple place that offers comfortable well-appointed rooms, a  multicuisine restaurant that offers well-prepared but generic fare, and sprawling lawns complete with a jogging track where you can enjoy the surrounding greens.
The biggest draw of Arunachal Pradesh is its unspoilt landscape and at Patasali, an eco-friendly camp run by the forest department, you have the chance to enjoy it at its best.
Located inside Nameri Sanctuary, on the border of Arunachal and Assam, this camp may not offer top-end luxury but the silence of the forest and the abundant greenery will more than make up for it.
You can spend your time river rafting or fishing- both activities can be arranged by the camp.
With more tourists flowing in, villagers have wisened up and you can now find paying guest accommodation in many villages.
If you want a close encounter with authentic tribal life, then snap up the first opportunity.
A word of caution:   before opting to stay with any one of the tribes here, do read up on culture to be cognisant of local etiquette and aware of sensitive issues. 
Forest rest house, Deban village, located in lap of the forested Patkai hills and on the banks of the Noadihing river, beauty halts at this riverside hotel.
Wake up to the call of the macaque and spend your hours chasing the elusive hoolock gibben, an endangered species of the ape that is only found in the north-east.
Find your self a hut at the Model Village in Ziro, which replicates a typical Arunachal village environment. The huts are beautiful decorated, and surprisingly, are equipped with modern amenities.
If you are the adventurous sort, you can try the local tribal dishes, but if not, you can have regular simple north Indian fare. A rare chance to experience tribal Arunachal lifestyle without having to roughing it out.
If inadvertently, you happen to walk into the remotest areas of the state without hotel bookings, and are on the verge of a nervous breakdown, here is a ready solution.
Ask the locals about the PWD inspection bungalows or circuit houses. 
You will find one everywhere and most are safe and clean options; sometime these modest rest houses can surprise you with their good food and décor. 
Keep your expectations low (you did not bother to make reservations, remember?), strike up a conversation with the caretaker and make your holiday even more memorable.
In a state where bamboo is found in such abundance, it is not surprising that bamboo shoot finds its way into most food preparations. 
Perhaps the most easily available of these is like you, a combination of bamboo shoots, fish and dried chillies (a common ingredient in most dishes in Arunachal, chillies are dried and pounded and kept for use throughout the year). 
Iku is had in all sorts of possible ways-dry, boiled and made into a broth and even pickled. 
Prepared to be alarmed (and, later, to alarm others) before you swing away mugs of apong. 
This local rice beer is quette the killer, both in taste and effect.
Unlike most beers, this one is not had chilled but, in fact, served warm. 
Traditionally, apong is had in large quirkily decorated bamboo mugs, which also double as good keepsakes. 
You can get taste of apong easily if you ask any local, but the capital Itanagar is perhaps your best bet.
A staple of the Apatani tribe, pike pila is a main dish made out assorted vegetables and pork.
If you are wondering, what’s so special about that-veggies and pork is of course a common mix found all over the north-east-the difference here is in the manner of preparation. 
The vegetables and meat are mixed in an earthen pot, which is then buried for three days. As a result of this natural cooking, (we resist the word decay), the ingredients turn into a thick paste and a delicacy that the tribals are immensely fond of!
At 13,700 ft, it is one of the highest restaurants in the world. The one-room cabin that goes by the name of Tenzing Restaurent is also the long dwelling at Sela Pass, the entry point to Tawang district where everyone stops. 
This place is more about sights than slurps-you won’t find too many traditional dishes, but you can get well-prepared soup, along with fluffy omelettes and charcoal-toasted bread.
The many festivals of Arunachal are the best time to taste traditionl, and sometimes rare, tribal cuisine. 
The loser festival held in February/March marks the beginning of the lunar new year according to the Monpa calendar and this is the ideal time to sample the best of the local food, which chiefly consists of momos, thukpas, pork preparations and soups. 
It also happens to be the most commonly known and popular Arunachali food, and something that doesn’t require you to be brave to try it.
If you want slightly less known Monapa food, try chhurpi, a type of yak cheese mainly used to thicken curries.
If you find people making rotis for dinner, you are definitely not in Arunachal Pradesh. 
Rice is eaten at all meal times here, so there is no escaping it. 
What we are talking about is the special white rice particular to Lohit district, which has its own special flavour and fragrance.
Cooked on bamboo, this is typically had with pork or bamboo shoot, or both.
Most of the local jewellery is primarily made of beads.
However, hunt for braded jewellery embellished with unusual additions such as bird feathers and even wings of beetles.
It is always a good idea to bring back more than just photographs to remind you of a destination, but in Arunachal Pradesh it would be downright silly to come back without one of the special Monpa carpets- beautifully handwoven, these are found with dragon motifs, or with bright, colourful geometric and floral designs. 
Sure to be your neighbour’s envy.
The different tribes here use timber from sal, teak, and oak to make plates, bowls, cups, and toys, which are quite charming in their simplicity. 
You can also hunt for the more exotic wooden curios: carved and painted masks, miniature fingurines, intricately carved Buddha idols and statues of warriors in action are just few if the things you should pick up. 
It may not be the same quality as the beautifully packaged handmade paper one finds in Pondicherry, but the handmade paper the tribals churn out is definitely worth its weight in paper currency. 
A must pick up is the variety made from the bark of the Daphne Botanica tree, by the Apatanis in Ziro. 
The Sherdudpen, Khampa and Monpa tribes make beautiful masks carved out of a single block of wood. 
Take your pick from interesting pieces depicting human emotions, birds and animals.
Some masks look terrifying, which means you have one that is attempting to scare away evil spirits.
Some are charming and pleasing to look at- these invite prosperity and good times.
Though beautiful and colourful woven goodies are widely available in Arunachal, each tribe has its own speciality. 
From the Sherdukpens, for instance, you must buy shawls; and from the Apatanis, jackets and bags; the Wanchos are good with bags too. 
To the typical tourist, Thangka cloth paintings are nothing more than great looking wall hangings. 
But the art connoisseur knows the value of a handmade thangka, a rare and expensive treasure.
Laden with religious significance, thangka portray the life and work of the Buddha. 
The ones you  should especially try and find are those that elaborate on the many parables the Buddha recounted to his followers and disciples.  
The cloth on which thangka are painted is ‘purified’ with prayers; in the past, the paint used was made by grinding precious stones, and the paintings itself was done only by designated, learned monks or high-ranking artists. 
Thangkas are supposed to drive away evil and herald peace and prosperity. 
Nestled in the eastern Himalayn region, identified as one of the major biodiversity hotspots of the world, Assam is a beautiful land of lush deciduous forests and serpentine rivers.
With five important National Parks, of which Kanziranga and Manas have been listed as World Heritage Sites, and 17 wildlife sanctuaries, this is a nature-lover’s paradise.
The mighty Brahmaputra flows through the State, bringing life to the verdant floodplains and grasslands.
And it is the State’s rich biodiversity that makes it the only producer of four types of silk- the golden muga, the white pat, the warm eri and lovely tussar.
Visit the silk town of Sualkuchi and you’ll hear the rhythm of shuttles weaving the most exquisite silks and cottons.
Do make a trip to the Kamakhya Temple, a beautiful and venerated site of Shakti shrines, where history breathes through stones. 
The State has a large number of tribes, whose variety of traditions, customs and dress reflect the vibrant multicultural tapestry that is Assam,
You will encounter here a tradition of courtesy and hospitality with people who have perfected the art of living in harmony with nature.
I hope you will take back with you wonderful and lasting memories of a memorable visit.
Wild Grass Resort and Tented Camp, located outside the Kaziranga National Park, the lodge’s architecture is rural and its atmosphere is understand. 
 Large private rooms look out over gardens verging on the wild and thick bamboo groves. 
Sit on the verandah under woven bamboo shades and enjoy their traditional cuisine.
They also arrange visits into the park, apart from nature treks, jeep safaris and excursions to tribal villages and tea gardens. 
If you want get a real feel of the jungle, bunk down in one of the tents pegged under a huge thatched roof and set amidst ruins. 
Worry not, you’ll have bathrooms and showers with running hot water. 
If luxury is your preferred poison, book one of the 18 air-conditioned cottages in GL Resort, Which brings ultra-comfort to mud huts and Karbi-style cottages. 
They have now started a safari route that begins from Ghorakate and winds through the less explored areas of the park.
For a completely and enchantingly different experience from staying in hotels and resorts, head to Majuli, the largest river island in the world. 
In its dreamy, unspoilt surrounds, you will find the Satras that it is so famous for.
These are Vaishnava monasteries (you will find at least 22 in Majuli), and they are treasure houses of pf art and culture.
A peaceful and rejuvenating stay at one of these monasteries is an unmatched experience, and one you will treasure.
One of the oldest hotel in Assam, the Belle Vue may not be the plushest hotel in town anymore, but it still offers unparalleled view of the mighty Brahmaputra.
It remains a beloved hotel and the view is more than enough reason to stay here.
Arrange for a cruise down the Brahmaputra in the evening. 
Wild Mahaseer is a British Assam Heritage property that is over 100yrars old, and has spacious bungalows surrounded by tropical forests and tea gardens. 
Spread over 22 acres, the bungalow are full of (colonial) character.
You can also make a trip into the beautiful Nameri National Park nearby. 
This is a great place for fishing enthusiasts, as you can catch the rare Golden Magaseer in this area.
Set in the picturesque village of Jalukonibari, this 72-year-old historic Thengal mansion, which once belonged to a tea planter, has been converted into a Welcome Heritage hotel.
It retains all accoutrements of the colonial way of life; the white porch has beautiful columns, the verandah are colonnaded, there’s Louis XV furniture in the drawing room and when you feel the chill you can sit by the fireplace or put your feet up in the chandeliered sit-out overlooking lush lawns.
No foodie ever leaves Assam without having his fill of bilahi tenga, a traditional dish made of fried fish and loads of tomatoes. 
The fish is cut into small pieces, marinated in salt and turmeric and deep-fried before being cooked with fenugreek seeds, green chillies and tomatoes.
The flavorful tenga (sour gravy) goes very well with rice. 
Bohag Bihu marks the beginning of the Assamese new year and is also the time when all households get busy making pitha, a delicious rice cake that can be either sweet or savoury. 
Traditionally, pithas were only made of sticky red ‘bora’ rice grown exclusively in the state, but now they come in an ‘instant’ variety as well. 
Powder to make the sweetmeat that no festive occasion in Assam is complete without. 
Meaning breakfast or Tiffin, jalpan varies in Assam from one tribe to another, but is always delicious. 
Jalpan is a sweet dish made of different kinds of rice with cream, milk or yoghurt, with jaggery.
You might not find this rare fermented rice beer in urban areas, but in the villages, it is made in practically every household.