The major drawback of this machine was the volume of liquid and proportional antifreeze additives necessary; it was closed to the public every year from November to March.
After 93 years of wear and tear, it was replaced in 1982 with two electrically powered sets of two counterbalanced cabins, running all year round.
This also enabled to restructure the criss-cross beams between the second and third floor, allowing for two separate emergency staircases to replace the dangerous winding units that were there from the structure’s origin.
The Tower's artificial illuminations have been constantly revised and improved throughout the years, taking advantage of the latest innovations in lighting.
From gas to electricity, incandescent lamps to neon and not forgetting the sodium lamp.
At the dawn of the 20th century, the Eiffel Tower adopted quite quickly the new electric technology.
Universal Exposition of 1889
The development of electric lighting has allowed the Tower to be bathed in light in a variety of ways over the years.
The first lighting system was installed for the Universal Exposition of 1900, but by 1925, André Citroën set the Tower alive with his colored lighting ad campaign.
In 1937, André Granet added colored lighting to the latticework handrails for the International Exposition of Arts and Techniques.
The lighting system in place since 1985 relies on 352 sodium yellow-orange tint lamps, placed on the inside of the Tower structure for an extremely effective way of flaunting the Tower's intricate beauty.
The Eiffel Tower was recently adorned with 2 light beams capable of being seen 80 kilometers away and activated each evening when the Tower lights up.
The beacon is composed of four marine-type, motorized projectors.
They are operated by automatically piloted computer programs.
Since their rotation sweep is 90°, they are synchronized to form a double beam in a cross that pivots around 360°.
The xenon 6000 watt lamps were chosen for their longevity, around 1200 hours.
The lamps are cooled to prevent overheating and a heating system is activated when the temperatures drop below zero Centigrade whilst the lights are off.
This beacon resonates the image of Gustave Eiffel's Tower itself as a universal and symbolic landmark.
The Tower’s golden lighting adds 20,000 flashing lights for a glittering performance of light on the hour.
The beautiful sparkling lights of New Year's Eve 2000 will be visible all year long.
Taking the role of a time piece, the Tower will announce the hour with 5 minutes of glittering lights in tandem with the permanent gold-toned lights, at nightfall every hour on the hour.
The last sparkle at 1 am will conclude the daily performance with a special finale: ten minutes of sparkling lights with the gold lighting system shut down.
The 20,000 flashes will also sound the gong at noon with a ten minute display of diamond sparkles.
The Eiffel Tower will once again sparkle each hour on the hour for ten minutes, from dusk until 2 am (1 am in winter).
This new lighting fixture is coupled with the gold-toned lighting system in place since 1986 for maximum effect.
But for the inauguration celebration, the gold lighting will shut down for ten minutes allowing the glowing diamond-sparkles to perform a new magical presentation sure to enthrall the enthusiastic crowds below.
Relying on spotlights on the outer Tower, the most celebrated monument in Paris beamed scarlet red colors for the occasion of the Chinese New Year on Saturday, January 24, 2004.
Following the Chinese New Year parade on the Champs-Elyséees, the Chinese and French Culture ministers as well as the mayors of Peking and Paris were present at the "lights on" ceremony at the Tower.
The original operating concession had been awarded to the company Société de la Tour Eiffel.
When it expired in 1980, the City of Paris took more direct control of the Tower, through the means of a mixed capital company called SNTE (Société Nouvelle d' Exploitation de la Tour Eiffel).
One of its first actions was to launch an ambitious program of restoration and renovation of the Tower.
The structure was given a thorough examination, strengthened in parts and also lightened by the removal of 1,340 tons of material that had been added over the years.
Safety standards were redefined and adapted to modern requirements, particularly where they concerned fire safety.
The third level elevator was replaced, as was the old spiral staircase, which gave way to a new rectilinear staircase.
This course of rejuvenating treatment, a process which is permanently under way, helps give the Tower a very long life expectancy.
A new elevator was installed between the second and third levels of the Tower in 1983.
It consists of four cabins; making the connection between the two levels in one go.
A new staircase was also installed at the same time.
It is less dangerous than the old spiral staircase, and would serve as an emergency staircase to evacuate the public, should the need arise.
Located in Northwestern Cambodia, Angkor, the Capital of the Ancient Khmer Empire was possibly founded around the Ninth Century AD by King Jayavarman II. 
However, the city reached its peak glory in the 12th Century under Kings Suryavarman II and Jayavarman VII.
The most beautiful and most famous monument in the city, Angkor Wat, lies about one kilometer south of the Royal town of Angkor Thom which was founded by Jayavarman VII. 
The Temple of Angkor Wat was dedicated to the Hindu God Vishnu by King Suryavarman II, who reigned between AD 1131 and 1150. 
The Temple was constructed over a period of 30 years, and illustrates some of the most beautiful examples of Khmer and Hindu art. 
Covering an area of about 81 hectares, the complex consists of five towers, which are presently shown on the Cambodian national flag. 
These towers are believed to represent the five peaks of Mount Meru, the Home of Gods and Center of the Hindu Universe. 
Angkor Wat features the longest continuous bas-relief in the world, which runs along the outer gallery walls, narrating stories from Hindu Mythology. 
With the decline of the Ancient Khmer Empire, Angkor Wat was turned into a Buddhist Temple and was continuously maintained, which helped its preservation. 
In 1992, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee declared the monument, and the whole city of Angkor, a World Heritage Site.
The Great Wall started as earth works thrown up for protection by different States. 
The individual sections weren't connected until the Qin dynasty (221-206 B.C.). 
Qin Shihuangdi, First Emperor of Qin began conscripting peasants, enemies, and anyone else who wasn't tied to the land to go to work on the wall. 
He garrisoned armies at the Wall to stand guard over the workers as well as to defend the northern boundaries. 
The tradition lasted for centuries. Each dynasty added to the height, breadth, length, and elaborated the design mostly through forced labor. 
It was during the Ming dynasty (1368-1644) that the Wall took on its present form. 
The brick and granite work was enlarged and sophisticated designs were added. 
The watch towers were redesigned and modern canon were mounted in strategic areas. 
The Portuguese had found a ready market for guns and canon in China, one of the few items of trade that China didn't already have in abundance. 
The Ming Emperors, having overthrown the Hun dominance and expelled their Mongol rulers of the North devoted large portions of available material and manpower to making sure that they didn't return. 
Throughout the centuries, armies were garrisoned along the length of the Wall to provide early warning of invasion and a first line of defense. 
Great piles of straw and dung used to build signal fires have been found during excavations. 
There must have been small garrison towns spotted along the length. There weren't many farms or trade towns to provide ease, relaxation and food. 
The supply trails were over mountains along narrow paths. 
To bring supplies to the top, ropes were slung over posts set in the Chinese side of the wall and baskets were hauled up hand over hand. 
Supplies must have always been short and chancy, particularly in the winter. 
The Wall served well. Only when a dynasty had weakened from within were invaders from the north able to advance and conquer. 
Both the Mongols (Yuan Dynasty, 1271-1368) and the Manchurians (Qing Dynasty,1644-1911) were able take power, not because of weakness in the Wall but because of weakness in the government and the poverty of the people. 
They took advantage of rebellion from within and stepped into the void of power without extended wars. 
Over the past few centuries, the Great Wall has served as a source of building materials for local farms and villages. 
Aerial photos show that in sections, only the top battlements show -- the center of the wall has filled with sand and silt. 
The same brutal isolated conditions which made the Great Wall a triumph of engineering and determined planning make restoration problematic and slow.
Founded in the Sixth Century BC by the Kings of the First Persian Empire (the Achaemenids), Persepolis is located 60 km northeast of Shiraz in Iran. 
The present-day Persian name, Takht-e-Jamshid, means "Throne of Jamshid", a legendary Iranian King. 
However, the ancient name of the city was Parsa, or Pars' City, hence the Greek name Persepolis. 
Construction of the city began under Kings Cyrus the Great (ca. 550 BC) and Darius I (ca. 520 BC) to possibly serve as a ceremonial and spiritual Capital of the Persian Empire. 
Susa, the administrative Capital, was located 500 km north of Persepolis. 
The growth of the city continued under later Kings such as Artaxerxes I (ca. 450 BC) who finished the Hall of 100 Columns and Artaxerxes II (ca. 350 BC) who built the Unfinished Palace. However, the most glorious monuments in Persepolis were commissioned by Xerxes I (ca. 470 BC): the Gate of All Nations, and the Throne Hall. 
Persepolis continued to flourish under the later Achaemenian Kings, until it was burned and destroyed by Alexander the Great in 330 BC. 
It is not known whether the burning of the city was accidental or an act of revenge for the destruction of Temples in Athens in 480 BC by the Persians. 
Modern excavations in Persepolis began in the early 19th Century. 
The Gate of All Nations is located at the end of two monumental staircases. 
Between the staircase ramps are symbols of the Zarathustrian God Ahura Mazda, and carvings representing the different Nations of the World, from Egyptians and Armenians, to Babylonians, Assyrians, and Medians.
The Gate leads to the Throne Hall, or the Hundred-Column Hall. 
The Hall contains several doorways adorned with carvings showing the King in military combat. 
It is believed that the Gate of All Nations and the Throne Hall were used in New Year's celebrations when delegates presented the annual tribute to the Persian King.
The city of Persepolis was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO in 1979.
Petra (lit. Rock) was the capital city of the Nabataeans, a tribe of pre-Roman Arabs who dominated the region around the Sixth century BC. 
Located at the crossroads of ancient trade routes, the city survived on toll and taxes collected from traders.
Despite several attempts to conquer their capital, the Nabataeans remained practically independent until the defeat of Antony and Cleopatra and the reunification of the Roman Empire by Octavian in 31 BC. 
In 106, the Romans under Trajan finally captured Petra to mark the beginning of the decline of the city. 
The city remained unknown to the Western World for hundreds of years until a Swiss explorer, J.L. Burckhardt, heard about its existence from the local Bedouins in 1812. 
The Nabataeans carved their Capital in the canyons and hills of sandstone of Wadi Araba in Jordan. The entrance to the city is through The Alley (Al-Siq), a winding trail at the bottom of the canyon.
Most famous is The Treasury (Al Khazneh), which fascinating façade was featured in many movies. 
Carved in the pink sandstone, the structure is 40 m high and about 30x30 m wide. 
Its architecture has been certainly strongly influenced by the Romans, which suggests it was built around the First century AD. 
The city includes other fascinating monuments and structures, such as Urn Tomb and the Royal Tombs, the Colonnade Street, the Temples of Dushara and Al-Uzza, and the High Place of Sacrifice.
Located at the city of Agra in the State of Uttar Pradesh, the Taj Mahal is one of the most beautiful masterpieces of architecture in the world. 
Agra, situated about 200 km south of New Delhi, was the Capital of the Mughals (Moguls), the Muslim Emperors who ruled Northern India between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries.
The Mughals were the descendents of two of the most skilled warriors in history: the Turks and the Mongols. 
The Mughal dynasty reached its highest strength and fame during the reign of their early Emperors, Akbar, Jehangir, and Shah Jehan.