The Warlis paint the walls of their homes with beautiful paintings, using natural colors from turmeric, Kumkum powder, and rice paste.
You’ll find contemporay versions of these wall paintings done on paper and cloth with white posters paint on a background cowdung or mixed with glue.
Try the cottage emporium on the Colaba Causeway or the art centre near Juhu circle to buy photo frames, pen stands, paintings on paper, and silk, lampshades and wall hangings.
If you want to buy directly from Warli tribes, you’ll have to visit the town Jawhar, which is by far as much more interesting experience.
HImroo Factory in Aurangabad is widely known as the best place to buy authentic Himroo work and Paithani saris straight from the weaver.
It is believed that in the beautiful Paithani saris, the weave is so prfect that it is difficult to know which the ‘right’ side of sari is.
The traditional Himaroo fabric is a lovely blend of cotton and silk, and is known for its unique texture and quality.
There are also to be brought from Himroo Factory, along with other textiles that have interesting Ajanta and Ellora Fresco motifs.
The Himroo Factory is located at Zaffer Gate, Aurangabad.
Kayani’s is a much-loved bakery in Pune and has been around for the last 50 years.
The province combines many of the most important Industrial Zones in Indonesia and also has the extended recreation areas along the western coast of Java and in south the Ujung Kulon National Park and the mountainous areas that are home to the Baduy people.
Try the wine biscuits, the buttery and addictive shewsbury biscuits and the (extremely) sweet batasa. 
The main market in Lonaval is a great place to buy sweet treats.
For peanut chikkies visit Maganlal’s or A1 and do try the absolute sinful chocolate fudge at cooper’s in the Lonavala market.
Aceh is rich of events, attraction and unique cultures that it will fascinate anyone. Aceh is also rich in natural beauty, waves and sea garden, which is suitable for diving. 
Some of most beautiful Aceh tourism and historical sites and beaches have been damaged by the massive earthquake and Dec '04 Tsunami.
The name of Aceh Darussalam is come from Aceh language means the welfare and peace Aceh country.
Aceh is located in the Northwestern of Sumatra Island with the area of approximately 57,365.57 km square or 12.26 % of size of Sumatra Island.
Aceh is surrounded by: North side: Malacca Strait East Side: North Sumatra Province South and the west Side: Indian Ocean.
The capital of Aceh is Banda Aceh. The Special Province of Aceh with its area of 57, 365.57 square kilometers covering 1.17 per cent of Indonesia is situated at the northern tip of Sumatra Island, between latitudes 2<N-6°N and longitudes 95°E-98°E. 
In the central part of this province runs Bukit Barisan Mountain ranges with Tangse, Gayo, and Alas uplands.
Also, there are several mountains found in the region such as Pasee Mountain with its peak, Geureudong (2,595 m), and Peut Sagoe (2,708 m), Gayo Mountain range with its peak Burni Telong (2,566 m), and Ucap Malu Mountain range (3,187 m).
Other mountains include: Alas mountain with its peak Abong-abong (3,015 m) Leuser (3,466 m), Aceh" Raya Mountain range with its peak Seulawah Agam, (1,762 m) and Seulawah Inong Mountain (868 m).
The area also has several lakes such as Laut Tawar Lake in Central Aceh with an area of 60 square kilometers and a height of 1,225 meters above sea level, and also lake Aneuk Laot in Sabang (Weh Island).
Besides the mountains and lakes, there are also several major and lesser rivers, which run into both of Malacca Strait or into the Indonesian Ocean.
Among the rivers running into Malacca Straits are: Krueng Aceh (Aceh River) in the Greater Aceh Regency, Krueng Peusangan and Krueng Jambo Aye in North Aceh Regency, Krueng Baro in Pidie Regency, and Krueng Peureulak and Krueng Tamiang in East Aceh Regency.
The rivers running to the Indonesian Ocean are Krueng Teunom and Krueng Meureubo in West Aceh Regency, Krueng Kluet, Krueng Simpang Kiri and Krueng Simpang Kanan in South Aceh Regency.
On the west and south coasts, there are both large and small islands, some of which are inhabited and others, which are uninhabited.
These islands are Weh Island, Breuh Island, Nasi Island, Simeulue Island and Tuangke Island (Banyak Island).
The dry season in Aceh usually lasts from March through August.
The rainy season starts in September to last until February. The average annual rainfall ranges from 2,000 mm to 3,000 mm, with temperatures ranging from 25 to 30° Celsius.
In the highlands, the average temperature is 200 Celsius.
The amount of rainfall varies between all parts of Aceh. The western and southern coasts have more rainfall than the other parts.
The weather along the coastal areas is usually warm. In the mountains tend to be cooler.
The humidity varies from 65 to 75 percent. The wind from the west begins in June through November while the wind from the east begins in December through May. 
Bali Island, the perfect holiday destination for all ages offers something for everyone.
Bali offers not just various customs but also various "adrenalin pump" parks. Many exciting amusements are available in Bali, with something new opening all the time.
The number of offshore and inland attraction are on the rise because many tourists want them.
This tropical paradise has a unique blend of modern tourist facilities combined with wonderful shopping and a rich past and heritage.
After white water rafting that has gained popularity in Bali, comes offshore rafting or ocean rafting.
The more adventurous sort of amusement has now become an alternative sport for tourists.
Meanwhile white water rafting is still a popular activity with trips on Ayung, Telaga Waja, Unda Rivers, etc. The tourists can refresh their mind by watching beautiful scenery along the route.
Those are not enough, some of the best surfing beaches in the world can be found on the western side of the island whilst conversely the eastern side is a wonderful haven for families, with beautiful white sand beaches and gentle seas.
Bali is small island, just 140 Km by 80 Km and lies between Java, the most highly populated and influential of all the islands, and Lombok, one of the quieter and moderately slower paced islands.
Like many islands, Bali has developed a world of its own.
It not only captures what is special about Indonesia but also has a uniqueness of its own.
The culture of Bali is unique. People say that the Balinese people have reached self-content.
The Balinese people are proud of having preserved their unique Hindu culture against the advance of Islam, the dominant religion throughout Indonesia.
unique Hindu culture is still reflected in days to day life and can be seen in the numerous ceremonies, Balinese festivals and magnificent temples and palaces.
The Balinese are skilled artisans, particularly in woodcarving and in fashioning objects of tortoiseshell and of gold, silver and other metals.
The Balinese are noted for their traditional dance, the distinctive music of the gamelan and for their skills in weaving cloth of gold and silver threads, Songket, as well as for embroidering silk and cotton clothing. Stone and woodcarvings, traditional and modern paintings and intricately designed jewelry in gold and silver are readily available in shops and galleries throughout the island.
As for recreation, there is no shortage of options. Nature walks, horseback riding, diving, surfing - even bungy jumping and white water rafting - await the adventurous here.
Bali is volcanically active and extravagantly fertile. Bali has an area of 5620 sq km, measures approximately 140 km by 80 km and is just 8 degrees south of the equator.
Mount Agung known as the 'mother mountain' is over 3000 meters. South and north of the central mountains are Bali's fertile agricultural lands.
The southern region is a wide, gently sloping area where most of Bali's abundant rice crop is grown.
The south-central area is the true rice basket of the Island. The northern coastal strip is narrower, rising more rapidly into the foothills of the central range, but the main export crops, coffee, copra and rice, are grown here. Cattle are also raised in this area.
Bali has a climate that is tropical all year. The average temperature hovers around 30 degrees Celsius year-round.
There are dry and wet seasons -dry from April to September and wet from October to March- but it can rain at any time of year and even during the wet season rain is likely to pass quickly.
In general May to August are the best months in Bali.
At that time of year the climate is likely to be cooler and the rains lightest. Around the coast, sea breezes temper the heat and as we move inland we also move up so the altitude works to keep things cool.
It can get very cool up in the highlands and a warm sweater can be a good idea in mountain villages like Kintamani or Bedugul.
With 2.5 million people, Bali is a very densely populated island.
The population is almost all Indonesian, with the usual small Chinese contingent in the big towns, a sprinkling of Indian merchants, plus a number of more or less permanent visitors amongst the Westerners in Bali.
Each stage of Balinese life is marked by a series of ceremonies and rituals known as Manusa Yadnya.
They contribute to the rich, varied and active life the average Balinese leads.
There are ceremonies for every stage of Balinese life but often the last cremation ceremony is the biggest.
A Balinese cremation can be an amazing, spectacular, colorful, noisy and exciting event. In fact it often takes so long to organize a cremation that years have passed since the death.
Of course an auspicious day must be chosen for the cremation and since a big cremation can be very expensive business many less wealthy people may take the opportunity of joining in at a larger cremation and sending their own dead on their way at the same time.
Apart from being yet another occasion for Balinese noise and confusion it's a fine opportunity to observe the incredible energy the Balinese put into creating real works of art which are totally ephemeral.
The body is carried from the burial ground (or from the deceased's home if it's an 'immediate' cremation) to the cremation ground in a high, multi-tiered tower made of bamboo, paper, string, tinsel, silk, cloth, mirrors, flowers and anything else bright and colorful we can think of.
The tower is carried on the shoulders of a group of men, the size of the group depending on the importance of the deceased and hence the size of the tower.
The funeral of a former rajah high priest may require hundreds of men to tote the tower.
Banten is one of the young provinces in Republic of Indonesia.
This region is situated in west Java. It can be reached about an hour from Jakarta.
It's feel unbelievable, after the busy toll-way and hectic Jakarta as metropolitan city; we enter small and charming Banten.
This city has a lot of treasure to whom that likes history. Such as the ruins of Surosowan Palace, Kaibon Palace, 'Masjid Agung Banten' [Banten Great Mosque, enlisted in Moslem's pilgrimage in Indonesia], Speelwijk fortress and Chinese temple Avalokiteshvara, and the harbor of Banten, Karanghantu [devil rock's harbor] that still used nowadays already existed since centuries ago.
From this place, Sultan Banten's troopers took fight against the pirates and take defense from the Dutch.
Along with the prevailing regional government changing, in respect to the insistence of Banten People's aspiration to demand the separation from West Java Province, and after long process based on Law Number 23 Year 2000 concerning on Formation of Banten Province dated 17th October, 2000, established Banten Province as the 30th Province.
Banten Province consists of 4 Regencies and 2 Cities, 94 Districts, 128 sub districts and 1,339 Villages. Geographically, the location of Banten Province is strategic because of the link between Java Island and Sumatra Island as well as the capital of Republic of Indonesia and West Java Province as a potential market of Banten's products.
The economic sector, that have a great potential resources and various to be developed, namely sectors in agriculture, industry/trade, tourism, mining/exploration, and also supported by the availability of variety natural resources in great amount.
Industry sector contribute more than 52 % from total of Banten's GRDP, because in Banten there are 17 Industrial Zones equipped by good facilities and managed by professional private companies.
Banten is one of the newest provinces in Indonesia and also one of the richest. 
Banten has the easiest access to Jakarta being merely an enclave in this province.
This province uses its own unique culture and language, both called Sundanese that is also used to call its people.
The ancient kingdoms of Banten are Tarumanegara, Pajajaran, Banten and Cirebon would make interesting studies for the student of archaeology.
Cirebon is located on the border between West and Central Java, having a mixed culture originating from the ancient Cirebon and Banten kingdoms, resulting in similar customs and dialects of the two people, although Banten city is located at the extreme western part of the province.
Banten city on Banten Bay was one of the first places to begin trade with the Dutch.
There is little to see of the past glories of this area today with the exception of the Grand Mosque, which was completed in 1599 and is certainly worth a visit.
The Province has a great number of attractions, from the wildlife reserve of Ujung Kulon on the southwestern tip of Java and the isolated communities of the mysterious Baduy to the unspoiled beaches.
The villages are busy and attractive and the pace of life gets slower as we move towards the National Park in the southwest.
From any point along the western coast we can see the "son of Krakatau" volcano, which rises impressively from the sea.
Banten offers many different recreational experiences.
The trip to Anyer area from Jakarta is now quick and easy because of the toll road, which connects Merak port with Jakarta.
As we move further south along the west Java coast the lifestyle becomes more relaxed and after Labuan we move into more rural areas where the road conditions worsen and the lifstyle is relaxed.
Here access to the forest areas begins and we can move back in time and enjoy the peace of nature.
There is a bus each day from Labuan to Taman Jaya, which is on the edge of Ujung Kulon national park. There are simple cabins can be hired and a ranger can then take us on a walk into the park. It takes about six hours to reach a camping site.
The total area of Banten is 8,800.83 Km2, consisting of 4 Regencies and 2 Cities, which are divided into as follows: - Serang Regency: 1.724,09 km2 - Lebak Regency: 2.859,96 km2 - Pandeglang Regency: 2.746,88 km2 - Tangerang Regency: 1.110,38 km2 - Cilegon Town: 175,50 km2 - Tangerang Town: 177,20 km2
Banten region is surrounded by Java Sea in the North. Sunda Straits in the West, and facing the India Ocean in the South.
Total population in 2001 was 8,258,055 persons, consists of 4,231,079 men (51.24%) and 4,026,976 (48.76%).
The densely populated regency is in Tangerang with its total population 2,873,256 persons.