The heritage of Malabar Coast is not just a matter of isolated monuments but of a living legacy.
Centuries of a thriving urban culture based on international maritime trade has meant that the cities you visit today have absorbed Greek, Arab, and Roman, Chinese, Portuguese, Dutch and British influences.    
Centuries of cultural, religious and culinary excellence, they nestle amidst paddy fields, rubber and cashew plantation, coconut palms, rain-forests and, of course, the sea,
Kasaragod, the northern most district of Kerla, is the land of forgotten forts- Chandragiri, Hosdurg, Kumbala, Panayal; Bandaduka- their wistful remains standing by the sea.
The most scenic of these forts is the Bekal Fort, with a history stretching back to the 12th century.
South India’s legendary king Tipu Sultan held Bekal Fort before losing it to the British East India Company. 
The grand fort presides over the lovely Bekal Beach.
Kannur is a seat of North Malabar’s ancient folk art, Theyyam.
Theyyam is a ritualistic amalgam of worship, dance, music and mine, played out in front of shrines in honour of the deities, with the  most spectacular headgear and ornamentation. 
At Prassinikadavu Muthappan Temple, Theyyam is performed every day.
Kannur also has the impressive Portuguese citadel Fort St. Angelo, its bulk silhouetted against the Arabian Sea.
Fort St. Angelo was made by the first Portuguese victory of the area in 1505 and has some cashew trees, initially said to be planted by the Portugues.
Thalassery was the first British settlement on the Malabar Coast.
Standing testimony is the 17th contury sea-side Thellicherry Fort built by the British, its ramparts still massive and seemingly impermeable.
Check out the unusual 500 year old Odathil Palli Mosque built on the plan of a typical Kerala Hindu temple; surprisingly for a mosque, it has no minarets of domes.
Five km away at Kadiroor is Suryanarayan Temple, its initial structure dating back to the 13th century.
Take time for a diversion to Mahe, once a tiny French outpost.
Kozhikode (erstwhile Calicut) was once the seat of power of the Malabar.
Kozhikode is the historic spot where Vasco Da Gama found India, the land jof spices, as he landed on the nearby Kappad Beach in 1498.
Kozhikode was then the capital of the powerful Zamorin of Malabar.
The city preserves remnants from the age of the Zamorin, such as the Mananchiri tank and the Jama Atpali and Mucchandipalli mosques.
Don’t miss the old Arab settlement of Kuttichera; this population of Kozhikode’s Muslims, called Mappilas or the Moplah community, draws their lineage from the Arab traders of centuries ago.
Thrissur the cultural capital of Kerala, is dominated by the Vadakkunath Temple.
Vadakkunath Temple is believed to have been built by Sage Parsuram himself, who is said to have reclaimed Kerala from the sea. 
Thrissur in the late 18th and early 19th centuries was the capital of the great King Sahktan Thampuran, who is cedited with designing the city and transforming it into a cultural centre. 
King Sahktan Thampuran also introduced the famous festival, Thrissur Pooram.
Thrissur Pooram 30-hour long festival in the summer is known for its caparisoned elephant processions.
The sea, sand and sun experience of the Malabar Coast is one of its most alluring charms; this coast boasts of some of India’s finest beaches.
Bekal Fort Beaches is a spectacular location made immensely atmospheric, thanks to the brooding presence of the Bekal Fort right on the sea.
The illumination in the evenings gives the beach an irresistible air of glamour.
Kozhikode Beach is replete with old world charm, with its romantic lighthouse and two century old crumbling piers.
Cherai Beach (45 km from Ernakulam city), bordering Vypeen Island, is alluring for its thick coconut groves and quaint Chinese fishing nets on the waterfront.
Alappuzha Beach is a charming and fun place with its 137 year old pier and lighthouse.
Varkala Beach (54 km from Thiruvananthapram), is a sea lever’s favourite for the enchanting seclusion on offer.
Stretches of luminous sand and red cliffs overlook the Arabian Sea, and from the shade of trees on the cliff you can watch fishing boats foraying deep into the waters. 
Varkala is famous for mineral spring and massages.
Varkala beach is also a key Hindu pilgrim centre with the ancient Shree Janardhan Swamy Temple.
Kovalam Beach (16 km south of Thiruvanthapuram) is perhaps the most famous spot of the Malabar Coast, considered by many as India’s finest and something of an unforgettable experience.
Kovalam consists of three successive small crescent beaches- Lighthouses, Hawah and Samudra.
Besides the vast, soothing expanses of sand, water and coconut groves, there are Ayurvedic health resorts, yoga and meditation centers, shopping outlets, and some equally therapeutic nightlife.
The ancient Indian tradition of Ayurveda is a holistic science of preventive and therapeutic treatments that detoxify and cure not just the body but also the mind and soul.
Of Ayurveda’s many methods, using herbs, oils and medicinal plants, the Kerala Ayuraveda Massage has gained international repute.
Spas and retreats, which range across all budgets, offer long-term therapy for specific diseases detoxifying and reviving routines and quick relaxing massages. 
Partake of the Indian National Obsession! Tourism and locals participate equally in this Monsoon mania.
Udaipur- the first city of the erstwhile Mewar kingdom conjures up dazzling vignettes of Rajasthan’s legendary regal splendour chivalry and romance, battles royal and dizzy court intrigues.
India Tourism has a system of approving travel agents/tour operators who conform to prescribed standards of service and quality. 
A list of approved travel agents/tour operators is available at the local India Tourism office/State Government tourist office. 
For guiding services, hire a Government approved tourist guide who always carries an identity card issued by India Tourism and Archaeological Survey of India.
Change money only at authorized foreign exchange outlets/banks/hotels and insist on proper receipt.
Don’t fall for tempting exchange rates offered by unauthorized people.
A large artificial lake created in the 12th century against a beautiful backdrop of hilly terrain.
Ana sagar bank is a beautiful park, the daulat bagh featuring a series of marble pavilions built in 1637 by shan jahan.
Situated on the outskirts of the city foy sagar picturesque lake is named after the engineer responsible for it construction.
Kishangarh is a veritable house of art and is renowned the world over for Kishangarh miniature paintings.
The brahma temple is the most important in pushkar.
In fact brahma temple is said to be one of the few brahma temple in India.
 A beautifully carved silver turtle sits  on the floor facing the sanctum- sanctorum or garbha griha.
Peacocks adorn the tample walls, as they are believed to be the vehicle of goodess saraswati- the consort of lord Brahma.
Colorfully dressed village folk add fun and gayety to the event.
Puppet shows are a big attraction too.
 One of the sports involves the test of scores of passengers even as they struggle to keep themselves from falling off the camel’s back.
The varaha temple houses an image of Lord Vishnu in the incarnation of a wild boar] Who came on earth to kill the demon hirnayaksh.
 Varaha temple was constructed by the chouhan king anaji (1123-1150).
 The 12th century temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva.
 The temple of Lord Brahma’s first wife.
Savitri is located on hill behind the brahma temple and one has to climb a long series of steps to reach the shrine.
 The chhatrapati shivaji Terminus better know as Victoria Terminus is a splendid example of Gothic architecture.
Richly carved buttresses, domes turrets ,spirse and stained- glass Windos make it hard to belive that this grand building is one of the main statios of mumbi and accommodates almost half a million commuters daily. 
 Has been declared a world heritage site by UNESCO.
This colourful market north of CST, also known as mahatma phule market, was built in 1869.
Crawford market used to be the city’s Wholesale produce market before it was strategically moved to New Bombay.
Bas-reliefs by Rudyard Kipling’s father; Lockwood kipling, adorn the Normen-Gothic exterior.
Laid in 1952 on the slopes if Malabar Hill the garden\ children’s park offers a panoramic view of marine Drive and Chowpatty Beach.
Kamala Nehru park was named after the wife of India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. 
The kanheri caves are situated in the heart of the notional park.
Kanheri caves Like those at Ajanta, these caves were built as Buddhist monasteries (viharas) and temples (chaityas) between the second and ninth centuries BC.
The largest cave or the Great Chaitya Cave is an impressive colonnaded temple with a pagoda.
The twin hills of Lonavla and Khandala are in the Sahyadri ranges.
The hill stations sprawl over an approximate area of 38sq km and a popular get away.
Carry your own bottles of water while traveling.
While in most deluxe and 5 star hotels is potable, it is advisable to drink mineral water at all times.
Look after your bags and purses particularly in crowded areas. 
Do not carry large amounts of cash with you, credit cards are accepted in most stores these days and are safer to carry.
Change money at authorized moneychangers only.
Foreigners entering India on a student, Employment, research or missionary visa , which is valid for more than 180 days , are required to register with the Foreigners officer under whose Jurisdiction they propose to stay.
 This should be done within 14 days on arrival in india, irrespective of their actual period of stay.
Crystal gallery discovers the whimsical side of royal pursuits at the Crystal gallery at the fateh prakesh palace next door.
 In 1877, sajjan singhplaced a lavish order of Crystal items from abroad for his personal use.
Amongst them- rhrones, beds and chairs and a plethora of smaller items including dinner set, decanters etc.
The order included a begewelled carpet from Birmingham. 
The raja however died before the delivery of the said items.
 Another 2km away, amongst the showpieces at the gallery of vintage and classic cars is a rolls Royce phantom II of 1934 vintage.
 The lale palace, or the jag niwas, may have been converted into one of the world’s most romantic luxury hotels in the 1960’s, but not many visitors are aware of its even more romantic past.
 It papers that this pretty water palace was built by a defiant prince jagat II in 1734 as a pleasure retreat, away from his father maharana sangram singh II (1716-1734).
 The palace was set in the middle of lake pichola, across from his father’s lakeside residence ensuring the access it was by boat.
If you want the true flavour of the city follow the twisty streets that disappear into the old town, east of the jagdish mandir.
 They are a treasure trove of surprises and can be more fun exploring than the city’s fancier establishments.
 At the crowded ghanta ghar, slip into old shops that stock mementoes of udaipur’s battle- scarred past.
 Traditional udaipur “garden of the maides of honour’ lies to the north of town.
 Its louts pool and leafy environs are popular with residents.