Economy Handicrafts products like woolen blankets shawls and sweaters are the main items manufactured in Amritsar.
Since it is mainly a religious and trading town there are not many largescale industrial units here.
Habitat Amritsar lies in the state of Punjab, just 29 kms away from the border of Pakistan.
The Golden Temple stands in the centre of the city and the Jallianwala Bagh is right next to it.
Narrow alleys and local bazaars surround the area around the Temple.
There is an army cantonment on the northwestern side of the city.
The story so far the seeds of the city were laid in 1577 when the fourth Sikh Guru Ram Das heard of a pool in the area that had healing powers.
He instructed his son and successor Guru Arjan Dev to construct a temple at the site, which would be the focus of the Sikh religion.
Guru Arjan Dev laid the foundations of the city of Ramdaspur in 1588 and the temple complex was completed in 1601. 
The Mughal emperor Akbar is said to have donated the land around the temple after paying off the local Jat farmers.
Arjan Dev, who had compiled the Adi Granth, holy text of the Sikhs, placed it in the temple precincts, which came to be known as the Harmandir (Temple of God).
The guru then invited traders to settle around the temple complex.
The Khatris and Aroras established their businesses and the town grew around its central nucleus.
In the late 18th century, the town was plundered by Ahmad Shah Durrani, to be rebuilt by the first Sikh ruler of Punjab, Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
The Maharaja also donated 100 kilos of gold for the temple, which was added on to the surface as plating, and gave the temple its name.
Over the centuries Amritsar has witnessed a bloody struggle for survival.
The city was constantly faced with threats from both Muslim and Hindu rulers, and had to be fortified by Guru Hargobind.
The Guru is said to have accepted only offerings of weapons from his disciples, which were used for defense of the temple town.
When Salim, the younger son of Akbar took over, Arjan Dev was asked to convert to Islam .
The Guru refused, and was tortured and killed by Salim, who had then become the ruler, Emperor Jahangir.
During India’s freedom struggle, Amritsar became the scene of one of the worst atrocities perpetrated by the British.
Protests and demonstrations were being organized by people against the Rowlett Act that allowed the British to imprison anybody without explanation.
To suppress these protests, the Governor of the Punjab Province Dwyer imposed a ban on public assemblies.
In defiance of this order, a group of men, women and children gathered in a rectangular piece of land, called Jallianwala Bagh, to mark the anniversary of the birth of the Khalsa Panth (order of the Khalsa).
General Dyer, who was charged to enforce law and order in the region, marched up to the ground with his troops and blocked the narrow entrance.
 26	He then opened fire on the gathering without any warning, killing and wounding thousands.
Even today, the walls of the Jallianwala Bagh bear the bullet holes where people were mercilessly butchered.
Some people even tried to escape the firing by jumping into a well in the complex, but drowned and died.
The British tried to suppress this incident, but it created a furor in the entire nation.
As a result, Mahatma Gandhi gave a call for Civil disobedience, which escalated to a mass movement and forced the British out of India.
In the post Independence period, the town once again saw a spate of bloody warfare, now between the Indian administration and Sikh militant groups.
Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, a militant Sikh leader gave a call for separate nationhood, which spread like wildfire throughout the state.
In June 1984, hounded by the army and police, a heavily armed Bhindranwale and his followers holed up in the Golden Temple complex.
When troops tried to enter the complex, many were mowed down by bullets.
The army, in a state of panic, rolled tanks into the complex and fired on the Akal Takht, the seat of Sikh religious authority.
Bhindranwale was killed, and so were thousands of his men and soldiers.
Though the te?????mple was rebuilt and is now back to its original glory, the scars in the minds of the Sikh people remained.
As a result of this operation, the Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi, who had ordered the army action, was assassinated by her own bodyguards.
In retaliation, many Sikhs were butchered by Hindus.
Again in 1987, the succeeding Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi ordered yet another campaign called Operation Black Thunder.
This time however, the action was more restrained, and damage kept to a minimum subsequently.
Normalcy returned to the state, with Amritsar regaining its status as one of the most important destinations for the Sikh community.
A healthy budget in Punjab is about $35 a day that will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions.
It’ll fetch you three decent meals, a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides.
Banking in Punjab is becoming easier.
There are a sizeable number of ATMs in Chandigarh and Amritsar.
Changing money can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time.
Punjabis are by nature street smart business people.
Aggressive and great go getters, the people trade in fields of agriculture, bicycles, woolen garments, dairy products, hosiery and textiles.
With increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level, business protocol has begun to adhere to western standards.
In the big cities expect thorough professionalism when dealing with private companies and high ranking bureaucracy.
The temple complex is surrounded by a fortified wall with eighteen gates.
The main north entrance is under a Victorian clock tower.
Known as the Darshani Deori, the entrance is up a flight of steps and down again to the temple and holy tank.
The Golden Temple sits on a rectangular platform in the centre of the Amrit Sarovar.
It is surrounded by a white marble corridor, which is encircled by pilgrims visiting the shrine.
A narrow causeway links the Harmandir, or Darbar Sahib, the temple.
The entrance to the temple is through an ornate archway with intricate inlay work.
Verses from the Granth Sahib are inscribed on the doorway.
The building is crowned with a dome shaped like an inverted lotus.
With the first light of dawn, the reflection of the temple in the tank gives an ethereal atmosphere to the complex.
As the sun shifts, the temple presents myriad views, each magnificent and captivating.
The temple building has four entrances instead of the usual single entry.
This is symbolic of the openness of Sikhism and indicates that followers of all faiths are allowed inside.
The walls within are decorated with carved wooden panels and elaborate inlay work in silver and gold.
The building of the Akal Takht was begun by Guru Arjan Dev and completed in 1609 by Guru Hargobind.
The Adi Granth is housed in the ground floor of the Akal Takht and is taken out in procession every morning to be placed at the Harmandir Sahib.
If you miss the early morning or evening processions, the palanquin that bears the Adi Granth can be seen in the treasury room on the first floor of the Akal Takht.
The palanquin is set with precious stones and has silver poles and a gold canopy.
Shrines on the northern edge of the corridor are venerated as the Hindus.
According to the teachings of Guru Arjan Dev, it was enough for the devout to visit these shrines and not visit all the original Hindu shrines which are spread all over the country.
Many of these shrines have now been converted into a martyr’s gallery showing the gruesome history of the Sikhs.
Around the Parikrama, or pathway, are four rectangular cubicles where Granthis (priests) sit and recite the Granth Sahib.
Pilgrims leave offerings at the steps, and can also get the holy book recited in their names for a donation.
The community canteen is a Sikh institution, which was started by Guru Amar Das in the 16th century.
The practice of eating together encouraged shedding of inhibitions and the principle of equality.
The community kitchen feeds up to 10,000 people in a day, free of charges.
The northwestern corner of the complex was planted some 450 year ago by the temples first head priest.
Marriage deals are also fixed under the tree, though this practice is disapproved by the temple authorities.
Two flag staffs joined in the middle with the emblem of Guru Hargobind symbolize the dual aspects of Sikhism religion and politics.
Two swords of the emblem are enclosed in a circle with the inscription Ek Omkar (God is one).
The Guru Ram Das and Guru Nanak hostels on one side of the complex offer free accommodation up to three nights for visitors.
The Golden Temple and surrounding bazaars along narrow alleys, is encircled by a ring road.
Even today, the markets have an ambience of ancient times, when traders bought and sold goods right across from central Asia up to the farthest corners of India.
Little light reaches down to the congested streets, which are best negotiated on foot.
There are rows upon rows of shops on each street selling specifics goods.
Guru Bazaar specializes in gold jewellery shops, while the Bazaar Kesarian is for steel and brass utensils.
The smells of Katra Kathian announce its wares before you reach the shops selling papads, warian, Murabbas (Indian jams), pickles and Aampapad (dried mango candies).
The Mishri Bazaar is the place to buy dry fruits, while Katra Mohan Singh offers a colorful kaleidoscope of bridal glass bangles.
Away from the bustling markets, is a spot that marks grim memories of India’s struggle for independence?
The Jallianwala Bagh , about 400 meters north of the Golden Temple, is a small stretch of plain ground now converted into a park.
Here, on 13th April, 1919 British troops led by General Dyer fired upon a group of assembled people.
The grounds are surrounded by high building walls on all sides, except a narrow access lane.
A memorial plaque at the entrance recounts the history of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.
Inside, a martyrs memorial stands on the eastern end, while the well and bullet ridden walls remain testimonials to the bloody massacre.
Around the old city there are other important Gurudwaras (Sikh temples), like associated with the Sikh Gurus.
Other shrines include the 16th century shrine dedicated to the divine couple Lakshmi and Narayan.
To the northeast of the railway station is the with a museum housed in the palace built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
The entrance to the garden is topped in red sandstone and inside is an interesting bathing tank constructed by a French General.
Bhairava basically refers to the Hindu deity Lord Shiva.