Ootacamund or Udagamandalam (the Tamil version of the original name) rightly described as "Queen of Hill Stations" by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, now sprawls over an area of 36 sq km with a number of tall buildings cluttering its hill slopes.
It is situated at an altitude of 2,240 meters above sea level. 
 Though the march of brick and mortar has laid waste its thick sholas which one saw in a bygone era, it still woos people from all over India as well as foreign countries right through summer, and sometimes in the winter months too.
 An added attraction for the tourists to Udagamandalam is the mountain train journey on a ratchet and pinion track which commences from Kallar, near Mettupalayam and wends its way through many hair-raising curves and fearful tunnels and chugs along beside deep ravines full of verdant vegetation, gurgling streams and tea gardens. 
 The scenery, as it unfolds during the trip, is breathtaking, awe-inspiring and fantastic. 
 One can notice a marvellous change in vegetation, as one goes from Kallar to Coonoor. 
 At Kallar it is tropical and at Burliar-the next bus-stop as one proceeds from Mettupalayam-it is sub-tropical.  
Near Coonoor, it is humid with pines, blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) and cypress trees.  
As we go from Ooty to Gudalur, the change in vegetation is striking.  
What a splendid interaction between climate and vegetation!  It is therefore very appropriate that Mount Stuart called the whole road leading to Ooty from Mettupalayam, "One long botanical debauch."
The scenery that unfolds as one looks out of the window is breathtaking
This beautiful botanical paradise was first brought to the public eye by John Sullivan, Collector of Coimbatore district in 1819.  
But prior to this in 1812, the first Englishmen who were sent up the Nilgris by the Collector of Coimbatore, were Mr. Keys, Assistant Revenue Surveyor, and his Assistant, McMohan.  
They made their way via Dananayakan Kottai to Aracad and the existing village of Denad, and penetrated as far as Kallatti, the lower level of North Ooty, but never set their eyes on the beautiful valley in which Ooty lay. 
 The work was executed by McPherson in a period of 2 years starting 1821.  
This was the only route to the Nilgris from Coimbatore until 1832, when the first Coonoor Ghat road was laid, thanks to the then Governor, S.R. Lushington, who got the work executed by Lehardy and Capt. Murray.  
The present medaled Ghat road from Kallar to Coonoor, a distance of 25 km which has 14 hair-pin bends and a gradient of one 18 ft, which facilitated carriage traffic from Madras to Ooty, was mainly constructed by Colonel G.V. Law in 1871. 
 It is gratifying to note that the cascade of the Coonoor river near Wenlock bridge on the Coonoor-Mettupalayam road named after Law continues to bear the same name.  
The Coonoor-Mettupalayam road was extended to Udagamandalam, covering a distance of about 15 km. 
 The Kotagiri-Mettupalayam road (about 34 km long) which was 8 ft wide to begin with, was widened to 17 ft in 1872-75 with a gradient of one in 17 by the Dist. Engineer, Major Morant R.E. and handed over to the District Board in 1881.  
During the period from 1819 to 1830, John Sullivan's contribution was, apart from laying the route to Ooty, that he built the first house called stone house in this place. 
 Further, at his own expense, he conducted experiments on agricultural and horticultural crops and in animal husbandry to find the most suitable crops and breeds of milch animals for future settlers.
Next to the magnificent task of laying the road to Ooty, the British took up, around 1880, the stupendous task of connecting Mettupalayam to Ooty by rail. 
 A Swiss engineer, M. Riggenback and Major Morant of Kotagiri road fame prepared an estimate of 1,32,000 pounds (currency) for laying the rack railway and floated a company called The Rigi Railway & Co Ltd.  
The work on the line was started in August 1891 by Lord Wenlock, Governor or Madras, but the company was liquidated in 1894.  
Later, a new company was formed in 1894, and the work was completed in 1899. 
 The line was worked by Madras Railway, to start with.  
St Stephen's Church - the oldest church in Ooty.
Though the Nilgris formed part of Coimbatore district, it was separated into an independent district in 1868. 
 For a period of 13 years from 1830, it remained part of Malabar district. 
 This was to prevent tobacco smuggling from Coimbatore. 
Udagamandalam considered a sanatorium and hill resort by the Europeans, has come to be like any other district. 
The devastation was so much that a ban on fresh construction was belatedly imposed by the Government. 
The Nilgiris range which is the junction of the Eastern and Western Ghats, was christened Neelagiri by its inhabitants 850 years ago, because of the blue haze of the clouds enveloping its slopes.  Originally, it was inhabited by Todas, Irulas, Kurumbas, Panias and Badagas.  
Of these, the Todas, who are vegetarians, tall and fair, have dwindled in number.  
The Badagas, who speak a mixture of Kannada and Tamil, are said to have migrated from Mysore 400 years ago.  
The Panias and Irulas are confined to Mudhumalai sanctuary.  
Though the Badagas were essentially agriculturists, they are socially, educationally and even economically advanced now. 
The present population of Ooty is 78,277 and comprises of Todas, Badagas, Tamils, Keralites and Mysoreans.  
The water supply for the city is from Parson's Valley. 
 In order to augment its revenue, the Ooty municipality has been permitted to levy a toll fee on all vehicles entering the Nilgris from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. 
 This, along with parking fees levied at the Botanical Garden, the boat-house and Doddabetta ads up to quite a sum. 
Tourists flock to Ooty during the annual flower show, boat races and boat pageantry in May and for participating in horse races during the week-ends of the season. 
Economically speaking, Ooty can sustain itself with income from potato and other hilly vegetables and tea.  
With the spurt in tea prices in the world market in the 80's, tea has usurped the place of potato. 
 As the slopes have been devoted to tea, vegetables have come to be cultivated in low-lying areas and swamps.  
As the demand for agricultural and horticultural crops is bound to increase in the years to come, steps should be taken to rejuvenate agriculture and horticulture.  
 Since cut flowers are in great demand in foreign countries, floriculture should find a prominent place in schemes to augment the income of cultivators.
The places of tourist importance in Ooty are the Avalanche, the Western Catchment, the Government Botanical Garden, St Stephen's Church, Elk Hill, Doddabetta (2,592 meters above sea level), Snowden peak on the Kotagiri road that commands a view of Mysore, the lake (formed in 1824 by Sullivan) and the boat-house, Wenlock Downs, Parson's Valley, Kalhatty Falls and Glenmorgan.  
The Mudhumalai sanctuary lies at a distance of 36 km from Ooty.
Of these, Avalanche located at a distance of 28 km from Ooty is a nature lover's paradise. 
 It is a lake surrounded by thick sholas which abound in avi-fauna. 
 The Western Catchment is about 20 km from Parson's Valley, and it is a rolling grassy down, interspersed with temperate sholas in valleys and depressions. 
 Glenmorgan lies about 17 km from Ooty and there is a winch of the Electricity Board to transport staff to the Singara power house.  
As the winch glides along the slopes, the sight of thick sholas unravels itself.  
The Kundah hydroelectric project executed in 1956 is also worth a visit.
 On the one hand it is apparent that the tree has been much better years; a 1905 photograph capture it standing tall, robust and bushy before what were then the Secretariat offices. 
On the other, it has survived the ravages of time; look closer and you will discover that its branches have a tangled beauty and that its alternate leaves glow softly in the wintry sun.
John Sullivan, the man who founded Ooty, planted this oak over 150 years ago in front of what was then his residence, Stone house.
 Over the years, Stone house was subsumed in flurry of construction for the office of the Secretariat. 
And today, these offices have become the Government Arts College – a tale of change and continuity that is very much the story of Ooty.
When you are caught in the snarl and disorder that is Commercial Street; are suffocated settle on the town in a noisy swarm; or are looking at the “morden” box-like houses that are strung out on the town in a pattern that resembles terrace cultivation; you can’t help wondering whether Sullivan’s
 If you are armed with a sketch of an original ground plan and elevation of Stone house, you can identify the exact portions of the old residence- the very first European house in Ootacamund – that were incorporated with the Secretariat office building. 
If you walk through over the ground and beautifully unkempt cemetery at St. Stephen’s, which lies on a small outcrop behind what must be one of the country’s prettiest churches, you will find the graves of Sullivan’s wife, Henrietta, and his 16-year-old daughter, Harriet.
The famous Ooty Lake – that serpentine stretch of water that has deteriorated in to a sewer-was Sullivan’s creation too. 
He dammed a stream in order to collect water for the nearby fields, but somehow it never developed in to the headwater of an irrigation system.
Half the lake was appropriate and filled in for the racecourse, but the other half still remains one of the remains one of the main tourist attractions in the hill station.
But as Reverend Philip Mulley suggests, his real legacy goes well beyond a building that endures here or a crumbling grave that survives there.
“His impact is evident almost every where,” says Mulley, who has keen interest in the history and sociology of the Nilgiris.
It was Sullivan who revolutionized agricultural practice in these mountains, there by changing the face of the local economy.
He did this not merely through the introduction of tea (which was commercialized only years after his death), but by freely distributing speed for a large assortment of cereals, fruit and vegetables.
He brought in European varieties of wheat and barley (which the Badagas knew as Sullivan ganji), vegetables such as cabbage, radish and turnip and fruits such as peach, apple and strawberry.
 It was Sullivan who persuaded the initially skeptical Directors of the East India Company to develop the Nilgiris as a sanatorium for sick British troops. 
And it was Sullivan again who encouraged the construction of the early Ghats ads up in to the hills. 
Sullivan didn’t ‘discover’ the Nilgiris, but he was the first to see its potential as a sanatorium and he laid the foundations that changed the social and economic face of these hills. 
Other European had been up before. An enigmatic Jesuit priest, father Fininicio, made the first expedition in 1603. 
He made the journey up from Calicut, but all that remains of his visit to Todamala is a small fragment that reveals he tried to converse with the Badagas about Christianity and that he gave “Toda women looking glasses and hanks of thread, with which they were very much pleased”. 
Two centuries later, after the British had annexed Mysore, there were other expeditions by men such as Buchanan, Mackenzie, Keys and MacMohan, some of them reaching only the lower slopes.
It was in 1818 that two youthful Assistant collectors of Coimbatore, Whish and Kindersley, made it to the made it to the Nilgiris plateau. 
One story goes they may have been on a shooting expedition, another that they chasing tobacco smugglers. 
Their account of their explorations, which were of a place that was cool and teeming with the game and wildfowl, stoked the interest of the boss. 
The letter he wrote from the “Neilgherry hills” to Thomas Munro, who went on to become Governor of Madras, is ecstatic. 
It had gone to ruin over the years, being used, among other things, as a cowshed; only recently was it restored by the district administration, thanks to the efforts of the environmental forum, to save Nilgiris Campaign, and the enthusiasm of an energetic Collector. 
Two years ago, D. Venugopal of the save Nilgiris Campaign, which has been at the forefront of keeping Sullivan’s memory alive, organized a trek that retraced the route he took up to the hills.
By 1822, Sullivan had started building stone house in what was then known as Wotokymond, acquiring land from the Todas at one rupee an acre.
He would quickly corner huge tracts of land, many times more than the other entire European settler put together. 
All the while, Sullivan was pepping his superiors in Madras with letters about the unusually temperate and healthy climate in the Nilgiris and its suitability as a sanatorium. 
By 1828, there were some 25 European houses, not to mention churches and the houses of immigrants from the plains. 
This was also the year that Ooty was made a military cantonment. 
Sullivan’s dream of making it a sanatorium for British troops had been fulfilled, but the government’s action meant that Ooty would no longer be in his control but in that of his rival Major William Kelso.
The only surviving photograph (see picture) presents a somewhat portly person, who seems both sad and sullen. 
We know, for instance, that he was extremely well disposed towards the tribal population – an attitude that brought him into conflict with senior Government officials. 
He argued, as early as 1832, that the “natives should be entrusted with a great share in the administration of their own affairs”. 
Remarkably, he also advocated the view that the Todas had total proprietary rights over the lands in the Nilgiris plateau and that they must receive compensation for any land acquired from them. Considering the times he lived in, Sullivan’s views suggest that he was an extraordinarily liberal man.
H.B Grigg, in his A Manual of the Nilgiri District in the Madras Presidency (1880), describes him as a “friend of the native”.
At the same time, Sullivan laid himself open to charges that he had used his position in government to acquire enormous personal wealth.
He retired and left to England in 1841 and died unsung on January 16, 1855 – exactly 150 years to this day. 
“Most people in Ooty do not even know he existed,” says lawyer and environmental activist B.J Krishnan. 
“But the important thing for the future of these hills is that we retain the spirit and energy of Sullivan.” 
The Save Nilgiris Campaign had planned a procession of tribals and a public meeting on January 16, 2005 on the occasion of his 150th death anniversary.