Another great place to shop in Kohima, is Belho Weavers, where you’ll find lovely mementos and yes, shawls. 
All Naga shawls might seem the same, but each tribe has a distinctive design- the Angami tribal use red and yellow bands on a black background, the Lotha tribal shawls are woven into a graded pattern, and the Ao warrior shawls have boar, elephant or tiger motifs. 
If you looking for a slice of everyday Naga life, head to the local bazaar that spring up regularly near the War Cemetery. 
Women dressed in traditional costumes sell almost everything under the sun. 
Trying to find mementos? Drop in to Gurtel, also near the Cemetery, which has lovely home furnishings and beadwork. 
Although Kohima is dotted with private shops that sell typical Naga goodies, this is the indisputable best in town for Naga handlooms and handicrafts. 
Mon, in this village, shop for wood carvings, guns and gunpowder (we’re not suggesting anything), headgear and necklace. 
It is worth going the distance because Mon is home to the best artisans among Nagas-the Konyak Nagas.
A land blessed with pristine beaches, placid lagoons and thick green forests, Orissa is also a melting pot of art, tradition and religion
Which is why it attracts travelers of all kinds-the nature lover, the believers, the connoisseur of arts, the writer, and the photographer. 
The most of lasting image of Orissa is that of the ‘golden triangle’, formed by the Jagannatha Temple, the Sun Temple and the Lingaraja Temple, a big draw for the spiritually inclined. 
The white-domed Peace Pagoda, or the Shanti Stupa, on Shauli Hill is a reminder of the days that Emperor Ashoka spent in this picturesque state. 
The beaches-at Puri, Chandrabhaga, Gopalpur on Sea and Chandipur on Sea- lined with casuarinas and are popular with holiday makers. 
Watch the fishermen tackle the deep blue waters as they venture out in the hope of a good catch.
The Chilka Lake, a combination of marine, brackish and estuarine waters, is dotted with many beautiful islands.
The dark waters of the lake turn almost flaming pink every year when the graceful migratory flamingos make it their home. 
No description of Orissa is complete without a mention of Odissi, the classical dance form that has given many a maestro to this state.
The most renowned exponent was Guru Kelucharan Mahapatra, who made odissi a worldwide phenomenon.
The best place to watch Odissi is Puri and Konark, which come alive with annual dance festival.  
There’s all this and much more. 
It’s all waiting to be explored. 
Orissa beckons you to be its guest. 
When the address you’re heading to is ‘by the sea’, you know you’ve booked the right place. 
Toshali Sands is one of the very few resort-style hotels, in the state, spread across 30 acres of beautiful greenery, and with its own private beach..
In one of its 50 cottages, you can sit out on your private verandah and smell the roses in your exclusive garden. 
Its name maybe Z, but this is definitely an A class stay option, and the only hotel of this state to be featured in lonely planet’s list of top Indian hotels. 
Its ornate décor, arched corridors and green lawns, Z hotel is full of old-world charm, and famous for its personalized service and superb food. 
Trident Hilton, Bhubaneshwar, if you looking for luxury, pick this five-star hotel that spells all things fine. Part of the international Hilton group of hotels, it is set in 14 acres of lush lawns and fruit orchards, and makes for a peaceful, charming stay option. 
in the deep recesses of Simlipal forests, Forest Rest house may not offer five star luxuries, but its location more than makes up for it.
Nestling amidst tall trees, the wonders of the dense Simlipal forest is at your doorstep here. 
For a once-in-a-lifetime adventure, speak to the head of a village who can arrange for you to stay with tribal families. 
This will not only be a chance to get acquainted with the hardworking tribals of Orissa, but also to sample authentic Oriya cuisine. 
Who knows, you may even learn to fashion combs out of bell metal. 
The best part about Orissa is that it is relatively untouched and pure.
It has beaches, dense, beautiful forests and ancient temples. 
If I had to pick a memorable moment, it would be a boat ride on Chilika lake at sunset. 
Not many Oriya dishes are popular, as they haven’t been marketed, but the cooking in every Oriya home is delicious. 
Hundreds of ways of making vegetables, each different from the other (ghanta, badi chura), mouth-watering fish preparations (macha patua) and meat (kasa mangsa), pancakes, both sweet and salty (manda pitha) and a variety of desserts with just the right amount of sweet (chhenna podo) would put any cuisine to shame. 
Dalma, made out of pulses, various kinds of healthy vegetables such as pumpkin, eggplant and cauliflower, and spiced with ginger and panch phoron (a special spice powder that is a mix of aniseed, fenugreek, two types of cumin and mustard),Salma is eaten regularly at typical Oriya household.
Machha Ghanta, don’t get misled by that rather amusing name or the baleful fish’s head staring back at you from the plate will give a nasty shock.
Much like the Bengali murighonto, this one is fish’s head cooked with rice, potatoes, onion, garlic and other spices.  
The fish is fried separately, and then fried again with rice-absolutely sinful. 
If you have a sweet tooth, don’t miss these: Chhennapoda, acaramelised custard-like preparation; rasballi, made of milk; pithas, pancakes made of coconut, lentils and jaggery; kalakand a grainy sweet made out of condensed milk; the ubiquitous rasagulla; and kakara that is made of powdered rice, jaggery, ghee and coconut.
The restaurant, Trident Hilton, you can choose here from pan Indian, Continental and even Thai cuisine; also available are some Oriya fish and meat dishes-try chinggudi mahoori, shrimps cooked with vegetables, and you won’t be disappointed. 
Bhojan is grand showcasing of typical Oriya cuisine, where you can try everything from vegetarian dishes to meaty preparations and sweet delights. 
Usually held on the premises of a popular hotel, Bhojan food festival will allow you to sample treats like dalma and ghanta.
Mahaprasad, Jagannath Temple, if over 400 cooks prepare something everyday, it has to be special. 
Add to it fact that this food is cooked for none other than Lord Jagannath and you don’t need any more reasons to try the much blessed Mahaprasad-rice, dal, vegetables, sweet-that is cooked in the temple kitchen over wood fire in earthen pots, and has a special flavour. 
Orissa is also a storehouse of colourful handicrafts and weave available in a wide range of designs and patterns. 
If you have and interest in these artifacts and handlooms, you will find them all around.
You can call Applique work, the French connection, though the once you visit the unassuming village of Pipli, most closely associated with this in Orissa, we doubt if those words will come to your mind. 
Appliqué work also called Pipliwork. 
Appliqué Work, this traditional Oriya handicraft comes in bold, colourful patterns, usually with flower, bird and animals motif. 
The most of common items are canopies, called Chanduas, lampshades and big umbrella with bigger handles (Chaatis), but you can also find bedspreads, cushion covers and wall hanging that you can frame and brighten up your living space with. 
Orissa version of tie-and-dye, Ikat is one of the most popular and internationally well-known handicrafts of this state. 
The multicoloured patterns and motifs of this fabric are drawn from nature and can lure even the most jaded shopper int9o a buying spree. 
Variations of Ikat are available through the state; choose from the double-Ikat designs of Sambalpur, gold and silver embroidered ones from Sonepur or the Bamkai Ikats that are with striking Shakti motifs.
One cannot claim to be Indian and not have heard of Sambalpur saris; and returning from Orissa without one in your bag is like coming away from Agra without seeing Taj. 
The trademark double Ikat designs of the cotton sarees of Sambalpur can be bought in any state emporium, but for the largest and most unique collection, visit the souce itself. 
In Sambalpur, artisans not only offer you sarees but also loose fabric, bedspreads, tablecloths and more. 
Apart from shopping you can also visit dense Sambalpur forest, home to a wide variety of flora and fauna.
Not as well known as its other handicrafts, the horn work of Orissa can stop you in your tracks. 
Intricately carved and shaped into everything from pen stands and cigar pipes to complex decorative piece and, the most exquisite, an image of a stork, this tribal crafts is worth checking out.
Try not to think that lacquer is made of the refuse of the insects that tribals go about collecting in ferests, and this artwork will seem even better.
When mixed with coloure and hard work, this material is transformed into vividly colourful nature-inspired or geometrical patterns that find their way on top of little cane boxes or decorate terracotta figurines.
Locally known as tarakasi, silver filigree work is perhaps the most exquisite craft of Orissa. 
Thin wires of silver are moulded into various shapes, creating intricate filigree work.
Incredibly beautiful, these artifacts make for memorable gifts.
You can buy jewellery, animal shapes or abstract curios, all of which are available in a variety of design. 
When you buy the famous dhokra work, made by the casting method, you are not only getting yourself a beautiful handicraft, you are contributing to the tribal community’s welfare.
The largest numbers of Orissa’s tribals are associated with brass and metal work, you can take your pick from utensils fashioned out of bell metal and, of cours, godly figurines.
Apart from beating (pifa) and casting (dhokra), a third kind of metal work uses residual material and hence is more flexible; it is found in the shape of flapping fishes and writhing snakes. 
Available directly from artisans in Kantilo and Balakati, in Puri district, and widely available in Cuttack and Sambalpur districts. 
For residual metal work, visit Belguntha, in Ganjam district.
In the heritage village Raghurajpur, 103 families are continuously engaged in the traditional Pattachitra, or paintings on cloth.  
Using vegetable and demons, as well as use animal and floral motifs.
A slightly different version is the talapatrachitra, or palm leaf engravings. 
Jaghurajjpur is close to Puri, otherwise buy from Utkalka, the government-run emporium found in almost all major towns and cities.
Held in January every year, the Ekamra Haat, also known as the Ekamra Utsav, in Bhubaneshwar is a great opportunity to buy all the traditional handicrafts and textile of Orissa. 
In a buzzing atmosphere, you can find a great variety at more reasonable prices than the emporia. 
The village Haats spring up at any time and are the best places to buy tribal artifacts such as combs, horn work, jewellery and wood carvings.
If you find yourself near a small village, head to the biggest ground and you may get lucky, otherwise check with your local friends. 
If you are in Orissa between November and December, the Bali Yatra, a big fair held on the banks of the Mahanadi at Cuttack, is worth a dekko. 
The Yatra commemorates the historical commercial marine link between Bali and Orissa and all sorts of irresistible goods are on display.
Great place to shop for all the must-buys featured on this list.
When you are in state that is and dotted with temples and intrinsically spiritual, encountering carved idols of gods and goddess in stone naturally abounds. 
The art of stone carving has been passed along by master craftsmen (whose fine work can be seen in the famous temples) down the ages and the finesse of this work remains unmatched. 
Apart from  religious items, you can get other figurines fashioned out of either soft white soapstone, or khadipathara; slightly harder greenish chlorite, or kochilapathara; the harder pinkish khandolite or sahanapathara; or the hardest black granite or mugunipathara.
Most of the stone artisans live in Baulagadia and Nilgiri, but you can also buy in Bhubaneshwar. 
Ikat weaves from Orissa are classic and enduring fabric art; the colours, weaves, dyes, and motifs are perhaps the most beautiful of all Indian textiles. 
Every time I am in Orissa I spend time at the saree shops, as much for the joy of handling the sarees as buying them,
I have a Japanese friend who loves Ikat too, and we discovered that the traditional Japanese weaves originated from Orissa, via Bali, perhaps in the 7th century. 
Invest in Orissa textile, as heirlooms for children and grandchildren. 
If you want to spot playful dolphins heard to Satpada, about 50 km from Puri, and take a break at the Dolphin island.
If you want to witness a living heritage preserved in its original form, come and visit Orissa’s tribal villages and be charmed with the rare mix of the simple and the exotic. 
Home to the largest brackish water lake in India apart from lush, serene wildlife sanctuaries, Orissa is a natural lover’s paradise. 
The temple towns of Orissa are also popular for their lovely beaches-both temples and beaches combine to make this state an exceptional destination. 
Hiding a wide variety of flora and fauna, and some endangered species, Orissa’s wildlife parks are a treat for the wildlife bluff. 
The Nalaban island within the lagoon has been notified as a bird sanctuary. 
The most especial experience in Orissa is found at the beautiful Chilka Lake.