The tandoori lobster, fish tikka and prawn curry, all three simply scrumptious, it is recommended without hesitation.
Ubadya the local version of Gujarat’s Undhiyu is well loved in Silvassa and Khanvel, especially in winter when it helps warm the bones.
Khaman is another must eat, a steamed chickpea cake cut into squares, extremely popular in Silvassa. 
Visit Jalaram for Khaman and other Gujarati farsans, as well as sweets like ghari, especially in the morning when the fresh Khaman is much sought after locals.
The tribal museum at Silvassa circle, which offers an amazing insight into the life of the groups living in Dadra & Nagar Haveli.
The museum is remarkable for its collection wooden and bamboo masks, the unique musuical instruments used by various tribes, trdiational jewellary and ornaments, fishing and hunting weapons, farming implements and even utensils.
The museum also has photographs of the tribal groups and extensive information about their culture, and makes for a great learning experience.
Hotels and resorts at Dadra & Nagar Haveli usually arrange various tribal dance performances for visitors, a great way to lose yourself in wholly alien culture.
There is wonderful Tarpa, where tribe dance in circle around a musician playing a wind instrument made from gourd; there’s the acrobatic Dhol dance of the Warlis and koknas during which they form precarious human pyramids.
There is also the Tir and Thali dance of the Dhodia and Dublas, when they whirl to the beat of the double sided cylindrical drum.
Fascinating and colorful, you’ll love the music and the energy.
At the entrance of the museum there is a little counter that sells hand made products from the tribal groups.
Warli paintings, the recognizable stick figures on cloth, rather like the ones they make on their own mud walls, depicting scenes like dances and festivals are the remarkable pieces of tribal art available at the sells counter of the museum.
And while you are at Silvassa circle, do visit some of the UT’s Portuguese past, such as impressive havelis with intricate carvings around their doors, which gives the place its name.
Most impressing is eco – friendliness of the UT as a tourist destination – there are dustbins everywhere, jute bags and recyclable paper bags are used in abundance, and there are restrooms at most tourist places, like a remarkably well – kept block at the Salmatia Sanctuary.
Organic farming is being promoted everywhere, and a recently developed destination is Dhudhni Dam or Dudhani, which is 19 km from Khanvel in a splendid forested area.
The tourism Dadra & Nagar Haveli has already begun to take off in a really big way, and one can only hope that it won’t lose any of its serene, laidback charm.
Hope that these wide open spaces will still beckon the traveler, and that the tribal culture that thrives here will remain untouched by commercialism and crowds. 
Silvassa is about 10 km from Bilhad on the Mumbai – Ahmedabad highway.
Good motorable roads connects silvassa with Mumbai (168 km), Daman (44 km), Surat (129 km), and Vadodara (269 km) 
Diu is also well connected by rail on Western Railway, and the nearest railhead is at Vapi (10 km) and a number of trains, including Shatabdi and August Kranti, halt here.
At Daman opt for the charm of an old Portuguese mansion that makes for a romantic resort.
Hotel Marina is a charming heritage hotel set in an old converted Portuguese mansion; this hotel features old world’s charm, complete with antique furniture, wooden floor and high beam ceilings, and makes for a perfect setting for the romantic soul.
One of the swankiest hotels, Cidade de Daman features smart, spacious rooms, a swimming pools, as well as tennis and badminton courts for those who like to keep active on their holidays.
At the bay view restaurant you can sample scrumptious lobsters, prawns and other seafood specialties.
The Bay View Restaurant also arranges lovely candlelit dinners on the beach. 
One of the oldest hotels in Daman, Miramar has lovely rooms featuring balconies that seamlessly blend the equally charming outdoors and indoors.
A great al fresco beachside restaurant keeps you happy and, if you overdo there, there’s the swimming pool to keep you fit.
Mirmar hotel also has an entertainment centre called the Mirasol Lake Resort and parkin Kadaiya Village, Nani Daman.
You can stay at the Mirasol resort which has a manmade artificial lake or frolic in the wave pool at the mini water park, making this an ideal place for a family holiday.
You must try dara, the local fish made in fiery curry and tari, an effective palm wine while you are in Daman.
Daman delight is easily one of the best places to eat in Daman, the restaurant at hotel Gurukripa comes closest to offering authentic Damanese cuisine.
Try the fish fry or the Portuguese – style pomfret curry.
Daman Delight is also known for its stuffed pomfret and you must also try the Dara fish, a local delicacy that tastes great when cooked in a fiery curry.
The Daman Jetty area is a hot favourite among travelers and locals seeking chaat, bhel and Pau Bhaji.
The specialty of this Daman jetty area is the ‘jetty rolls’, a local version of the popular kathi kebab rolls that is said to have been brought here by Bengali cooks working at one of the hotels and adapted to local tastes.
In the month of February, you will find hawkers selling papari wrapped in colorful newspaper.
Papri is boiled sweet and salty beans that are cooked in a pot over a charcoal fire.
Opposite the museum, Maratha’s place provides for an easy going, laidback atmosphere with excellent home cooking on offer.
Tari, a locally made palm wine, can give you a real kick.
Preffered by locals Tari is an essential ar all local festivals, however, a first, Tari should be strictly sampled for its taste and not drunk in copious quantities because of its strong, intoxicating nature.
Beachcombing takes on a new meaning for shoppers in this seaside town Daman.
The converted Portuguese market is accustom notified good market and is a great place to pick up important knickknacks at reasonable price.
Choose from household decors and utility goods, perfumes, and chocolates from Portuguese market.
Bamboo and straw are put to good use in Daman, where mat weaving is one of the best known handicrafts.
Select from beautifully crafted mats that are made with traditional materials and have tribal motifs – ideal gift for people back home.
Regular beach items such as goods fashioned out of sea shells and oysters that make foe colorful decoration pieces are available at Devka beach, Nani Daman.
A journey through Daman reveals a vista so unspoilt that it is unbelievable; as if belonging to some story you heard in childhood – any minute you would expect it to vanish without a trace…
Just where the river Damanganga flows into the sea lies Daman, picturesque and serene on its enviable seashore locations.
Dotted with unexplored beaches and charming seaside resorts, one would never guess that it is merely a few hours from big noisy cities such as Mumbai, and only a hop away from major town of Gujarat like the newly commercial Surat.
Who would believe that such a tranquil gateway lay so close to these popular cities, waiting to take your city – weariness away, waiting to be explored, to surprise?
Daman is home to some of the country’s finest churches, relics from the time of the Portuguese rule between 1531 and 1961.
Even today it is surprising that both Portuguese and Gujarati are spoken locally, and that there are some families that speak both languages.
The Union territory Daman is divided by the river Damanganga into Nani Daman in the north and Moti Dman in the south.
Cross the Damanganga and you will arrive at the historical Moti Daman Fort, an atmospheric walled area with lots of old, lovely buildings in and around the fortification.
Ironically, some of the grand old buildings are now put to use for the somewhat drab purpose of administrative work, but surely the officials based here are not complaining.
Inside the gate of the fort there is the Church of Bom Jesus, which attracts most of the Daman’s visitors.
The church has an impressive whitewashed facade, but the real beauty lies in its interiors – the richly decorated wood paneled hall has a superbly carved balcony projecting along one of the walls, and in front has an ornamental gilded Baroque alter.
The church is dedicated to infant Jesus and also has statuses of six saints.
Beautiful scrolls and floral patterns decorate the church.
Local legends have it that the eyes of the statue of Mary in Bom Jesus Church have the power of hypnotize onlookers. 
The fort itself has impressive bastions and a light house.
Out of the fort there is the church of our Lady of Remedios, completed in 1607, and one of the oldest churches in India.
As the crowds only get in at the evening for horseback riding, camel rides and other sundry amusements.
At Jampore Beach hit upon a great eatery nearby called the Chinatown  Restaurant, on the staffs recommendation opt for the sweet and sour prawn and chilli fish, both are really delicious.
When in Daman, always choose seafood and your meal is sure to be heavenly.
Also see the fort of St. Jerome in Nani Daman, an impressive structure that houses a church, cemetery and school.
Fort of St. Jerome is an early 17th century structure which has three bastions, one major gateway facing waterfront and a smaller exit gate facing the landward side.
Climb upon the parapet, whose different levels are connected by winding staircase, ascending right to the top for a superb Panoramic view of the river.
The river flanked by two forts on either sides, the candy - striped lighthouse of Moti Daman across, and the fishermen heading out to sea through the estuary nearby.
Cidade De Daman is one of the most popular hotels, with facilities including a lovely swimming pool and a restaurant set right next to the beach.
Sandy Resort is another that offers many convenient facilities, and is also one of the oldest in Daman.
Miramar also deserve a mentions – eat at its restaurant set on a promontory jutting to the sea and you will make yourself a memory for a lifetime.
Sea face road has some of the Daman’s most popular restaurants at hotels such as the Gurukripa and Sovereign, most frequented by out-of-towners.
You must try the hot favourite of the locals – the sea food, including fish and squid chopped up and fried and come at about Rs. 15 a quarter plate.
If road side is not your style, then another popular hang out is the jetty – the ‘jetty rolls’ are also another hit with locals, more or less like Kathi rolls, these come with meat or veggies rolled up in rotis.
More Mediterranean than Maharashtrian, More Goan than Gujarati, Diu is a tiny white pearl, hidden among the flashier jewels of he western coasts.
Off the coasts of Saurashtra, the island named Diu is a treasure trove of Portuguese monuments and pristine beaches; it is ideal for those seeking a relaxed holiday of strolling and swimming.
The harsh beauty of the Diu Fort, surrounded on three sides by jagged cliffs and a rock cut canals on the fourth, simply takes one’s breath away.
Thought in the state of gradual decay, the ramparts of the fort still make for magnificent, and somehow savagely beautiful, view with waves crashing in during high tides and monsoons.
The Diu fort also houses some antique cannons, sturdy walls, gateways, arches, bastions and a lighthouse.
The gaunt interiors of the fort transport you back to an era long gone.
Not surprisingly the Diu fort has a history fraught with strife and war.
The island was a trading post of Chudasasma Rajput rulers of Junagarh in the 12th century, before it was conquered by the relentless Muhammad Tughlaq in the 13th century, and ruled by the Sultans if Gujarat. 
It was not long before the strategic location of the islands attracted the covetous eyes of the Portuguese, who took control of Diu in 1535. 
Portuguese built the fort and walled the town of Diu against invasions, and during their reign, turned the island into a leading ship – building centre. 
It was only in 1961 that the fort of Diu was attacked by the Indian Army, who took over the Diu from Portuguese inhabitants.
As far as Portuguese legacies go, it is also worth checking out is the Fortim Do Mar or the Fortress of Panikota, an imposing stone building in the middle of the sea.
Climb onto the boat at Diu jetty and head there to admire the lighthouse and the church dedicated to our Lady of the sea.
For all you know, you could discover the sea tunnel that, legends has it, connects it to land.
Many of the homes lining the streets looked quiet like something out of a Garcia Marquez novel, with their old fashioned shuttered windows and charmingly shabby tiled roofs.
There are some superb buildings with gothic and Baroque facades; even some with Gujarati architectural elements reminiscent of the grand Havelis Ahmedabad, yet with their broad balconies, arches and porticos, so very Mediterranean.
In fact walking is the best way to discover Diu’s secrets.
Built in the early - 1600s, the church of Saint Paul, has an impressive white – walled facades that gives way to interiors that features a superbly carved wooden alter and well – sculpted statues of the Saints.
Almost next to the St. Paul Church there is the Sao Tome Church, which now houses a fascinating little Diu museum, populated by an array of old wooden statues of saintly ladies.
Of course, what really made some one love the place was that the Hotel Sao Tome Retiro, affectionately known as Georgie’s offers accommodation in part of Cathedral.
Visit the seashell museum,which has been painstainkingly pieced together by a former Merchant Navy captain, Devjibhai Fulbaria.
Fly Jet Airways from Mumbai to Diu, There are more frequent flights to Bhavnagar, which is three hours from Diu by road.
Designed to look like a grand Portugues Villa, and set in lush green lawns, Hotel Kohinoor is one of the plushest of what Diu has to offer.
It may be about 4 km from the beach, but it makes up for this with its aquatic facilities including a huge swimming pool, jacuzzi and a waterpark that both children and adults will love.