The most populous state of India with over 16% the countries population; Uttar Pradesh is the heartland of India.
It stretches from the towering Himalayan range in the north, to the foothills of the Terai and the Gangetic plains down to the east.
The Ganges River, which forms the backbone of Uttar Pradesh, is the holy river of Hinduism and there are several important pilgrimage towns along it.
As per its topography, Uttar Pradesh can be divided into three distinct regions the Himalayan mountainous region in the north, the fertile and vast Gangetic plains in the centre and the rocky Vindhya range and plateau to the south of the state.
Many important rivers originate in the mountains and flow through the state; they include the mighty Ganga, Yamuna, Ramganga, Gomti and Ghaghara.
Uttar Pradesh shares international boundaries with Nepal and China and is surrounded by the Indian states of Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.
Flora & Fauna Sub Alpine and alpine forests are found in the upper reaches of the Himalayas.
Tropical moist deciduous forests grow in the terai and the northern areas.
The central, eastern and western plains have tropical dry deciduous forests, while the southwestern plateau has tropical thorny forests.
A network of rivers runs through the state, with a wide variety of fresh water fish like mahaseer, hilsa, saul, rohu, mirgal, katla and trout.
The region is also home to a number of species of snakes, tortoises and crocodiles, especially the snout nosed Indian Gharial.
From the bird species found in the Himalayas like pheasants and snow eagles to birds of prey and other avian species found in the plains like peafowl, nightingales, sparrows and owls.
Animals found in the thick forests of Uttar Pradesh include the endangered Royal Bengal tiger, panther, snow leopard, jackals, hyenas, sambhar, cheetal, musk deer, chinkara, nilgai, brown bear, mountain goat and elephants.
In the hilly reaches, panthers and leopards have been known to attack people and carry away small children.
Climate in summer, between March and June, the temperature soars up to 45°C during the day.
Dry, searing winds heat up the ground and make it difficult to venture outdoors.
Light cottons are the best clothing, except in winter, when light woolens are required.
The temperature is around 28°C during the day, but can go down to 4°C at night.
Economy Besides tourism, Agra has also grown into an important centre for handicrafts and small industries.
Leather, wool and silk carpets, stone sculptures, jewellery and inlay work are the major revenue earners.
The industrial units, some 1700 of them in and around Agra, have been in the eye of a storm in recent times.
Conservationists have realized that industrial and vehicular pollution caused substantial damage to the monuments.
A Supreme Court order banning polluting industries evoked strong protest from the local entrepreneurs but the process of relocation of industrial units and of creating a 2 kms exclusion zone for petrol and diesel vehicles around the Taj has begun.z
Accommodation at the top end hotels can be expensive but food is cheap.
Watch out for overenthusiastic tourist "assistants" that’s where your wallet gets lighter.
Several banks are located in Agra.
The State Bank of India will change your money and encash Travelers Cheques.
Banks are open from 10 am 4. 30pm on weekdays, On Saturdays working hours are between 10am to 1pm. 
There is a money change bureau located in Taj Ganj which is open Mon and Sat.
Keep appointments, be punctual (though that’s a value that Indians are only now picking up), and shake hands if one is offered or greet with hands folded in Namaste.
You’ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many Indians believe that curiosity conveys concern.
Men should wear formal cotton shirts with a tie and trousers if the weather is warm otherwise a business suit is appropriate.
Sightseeing Emperor Shah Jahan built this white marble mausoleum for his queen Arjumand Bano Begum or Mumtaz Mahal.
The building aside, the Taj Mahal is one of the most glorious symbols of love.
Great builder that he was, the Emperor commissioned a building that has lasted centuries to remain a thing of rare breathtaking beauty.
The building was commissioned in 1631 and decorated with the landmark technique of intricate marble inlay work.
Situated on the banks of the River Yamuna, the Taj Mahal stands at the northern end of formal gardens.
The white marble came from Makrana in Rajasthan and the red sandstone from Fatehpur Sikri.
Precious stones like jade, crystal, turquoise, lapis lazuli, sapphire, jade, coral and diamonds were brought from far flung places in Tibet, China, Sri Lanka, Persia and Afghanistan.
It is believed that a fleet of 1000 elephants was used to transport the material.
The main entrance to the monument is of red sandstone, with domed pavilions in the Hindu style.
The gateway is inscribed with verses from the Koran, the lettering of which appear the same size through an illusion created by the craftsmen who enlarged and lengthened the letters at different positions.
The gardens enclosed by high walls are divided into four parts or the charbagh, which symbolizes the Gardens of Paradise in Islam. 
There are fountains and water channels flowing through the garden, representing the rivers of water, milk, wine and honey.
The monument itself stands on a raised platform with four minarets in the corners.
The minarets have a slightly outward incline, to prevent them from falling on the monument during an earthquake.
You have to remove your shoes before getting on to the platform socks, or cloth shoes available at the base, should be kept on since the marble gets very hot during the day.
A huge dome, rising 44 feet high with a brass spire on top crowns the Taj Mahal.
Inside is a central chamber with high ceilings that houses the cenotaphs of Mumtaz Mahal and Shah Jahan.
A delicately carved trelliswork marble screen encloses them The empress tomb, which is directly under the dome, has the 99 names of Allah inscribed on it.
Shah Jahan’s cenotaph is higher and to the left it has a pen box inscribed on it, which symbolizes a male ruler.
Surrounding the central chamber are four octagonal rooms where the other members of the royal family were to have been laid to rest.
The base is carved with floral motifs, of roses, tulips, and narcissi.
On both sides of the Taj are two identical red sandstone mosques.
The one to the right, the Jawab (answer) was built only for symmetry and holds no prayers since it faces away from the Mecca.
In front of the main entrance is a platform, which is popular for use as a spot for taking photographs.
You will find many couples sitting on it with the Taj Mahal as the backdrop to pose for the most precious memento of their visit.
On the western wall of the compound is the museum, there is a good collection of Mughal miniature paintings, portraits of the Mughal rulers, ancient coins and porcelain.
Around & About By Air Ahmedabad is connected to Mumbai, Delhi and major cities of India by air.
The city is also linked to Muscat, London and New York.
The airport lies 10km to the northeast of the city; auto rickshaws, taxis and tourist buses will take you to your hotel or the city centre.
You could have a rented car meet you on arrival.
By Train Ahmedabad is well connected to most destinations in the country as well as to the different towns in Gujarat.
The metro cities Mumbai (545 km), Delhi (915 km), Calcutta, Chennai and other major cities are linked by a number of super fast, express and mail trains.
Ahmedabad Railway Station is located east of the old city; auto rickshaws, taxis and city buses available outside the station facilitate access to the city.
By Road Gujarat has the best network of roads in India.
Interstate bus services linking Ahmedabad to other cities in the state and beyond are regular and efficient.
The roads are smooth four lane highways in some parts of the state and two lanes elsewhere, but all roads are well maintained and have motels, restaurants and gas stations at regular intervals.
No yellow topped taxis run in Ahmedabad, only private tourist taxis or the auto rickshaws whose fare has to be negotiated before boarding.
The city bus service is efficient but very crowded.
Car rental companies will rent vehicles with drivers.
If you plan to drive yourself, then make sure you have a valid driving license and ensure the car insurance is covered.
The best time to visit Ahmedabad is between October and March.
The perfect time to go there, however, is mid January when the International Kite Festival takes place, and enthusiasts come from all over the world to test their skills.
There is a wide variety of hotel accommodation available, and covers a wide range of budgets.
Ahmedabad has a goodly number of 5 star hotels with conference and convention facilities, health clubs, sports clubs and swimming pool, foreign exchange bureaus, in house multi cuisine restaurants et al to hotels where the frills may be sadly lacking but relative costs should more than compensate.
In the middle lie reasonably priced hotels, clean albeit simple rooms with or without air conditioning but thankfully with attached bathrooms.
Guesthouses and lodges provide standardized accommodation at low costs for the great Indian middle class traveler who has to watch his wallet but will not compromise on cleanliness and hygiene.
Travelers anywhere must always carry essential items like a basic first aid kit with medicines like for general ailments like fevers, colds and coughs, cuts and scrapes as well as specific medication for allergies, insect and mosquito repellents etc All these are available in the city, so if you are caught without them don’t worry too much, 24 hour chemists will help you out.
Though the city has well equipped shops, branded cosmetics and toiletries may not be easily available but items like camera films etc are easily and widely available.
If you are coming here in winter carry woolens as the night temperatures tend to drop dramatically but in summers, cool comfortable cotton garments, sunshades and hats will do just fine.
Ahmedabad offers a culinary experience par excellence to first time visitors at the open-air village restaurant outside the city.
The ambience reflects a typical Gujarat village, the food is traditional, the crockery consists of leaf, plates and earthenware cups, the seating is rustic and the entertainment is ethnic! But within the city, food choices range from multi cuisine restaurants serving a variety of Asian cuisines, American style fast food snack bars and cafés, no frill reasonably priced restaurants serving typical Gujarati, south and north Indian cuisines.
Prohibition is strictly enforced in Gujarat.
The state has no shops or bars selling liquor.
Foreigners however are served alcoholic drinks at some hotels upon showing their passports.
Ahmedabad is famous for cotton textiles and traditional jewellery.
The main shopping areas are CG Road, Law Garden and Relief Road and Ashram Road where you could visit any of the branches of the Khadi Gramodyog Emporium, Gurjari Emporium (Ashram Road), Hastkala (Relief Road), Kapasi Handicraft Emporium (CG Road), Saurashtra Emporium (Ashram Road), and Bandhej (Mithakhali Road).
These are state government run enterprises that stock the best of the crafts and textiles of Gujarat with an assurance of quality and accurate price.
The SEWA or the self employed women's association offers hand printed fabrics and other textiles made by women’s cooperatives.
Ahmedabad is also a good place to look for traditional jewellery, cotton textiles, handicrafts and a host of other things.
On Makar Sankranti (13/14/15 January) every year, the city is at its colorful best when thousands and thousands of kites of every shape, size and color soar into the sky as it celebrates the International Kite Festival.
And the night sky is lit up with the twinkling of a myriad tiny paper lamps sent up on special kites!
You can use Ahmedabad as a base for excursions to the spectacular stepwell Adalaj Vav (19 km), Modhera (105 km northwest) an 11 th century Sun temple, Patan (130 km northwest) the former capital of Gujarat, and the Nal Sarovar Bird Sanctuary (58 km southwest) marshes and a lake with flamingos, pelicans, ducks, geese, cranes, storks, ibises, spoonbills, kingfishers, swallows, fishing eagles, osprey, harriers and falcons.
The sanctuary has facilities for renting country boats for bird watching or picnics on one of the islands.
Climate Ahmedabad has a very hot and humid climate with summer temperatures soaring up to 45° Celsius. 
In the winters, temperatures may touch a low of 5° Celsius. 
But it is the frequent rains that send the relative humidity levels zooming up through out the year.
 The city of Ahmedabad lies in the western Indian state of Gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state.
The city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the Sabarmati River.