India Travel Destinations, the travel guide, offers a wide range of opportunities to the dare devils amongst the tourists and the strong hearted travelers to undertake parasailing in India which is a fast picking up sport as far as adventure tourism in India is concerned.
 Parasailing in India is a faction of adventure tourism in India, which can be called as tourism with a difference. 
Parasailing centers are few in the country but still both domestic and international tourists are taking up parasailing in India for the sheer thrill of it.
Parasailing in India is one of the newest of windows of opportunities opened by adventure tourism in India and it takes place at several places, but Himalayas still are the perfect place for parasailing in India.
Parasailing is carried with great verve and brio in places of the order of, Bundla Dhar near Bilaspur and Intkali in Pabbar valley near Rohru in Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. 
Parasailing is a sport, which is a combination of skydiving and paragliding both being high on adrenaline sports, rolled into one. Recently, parasailing has been initiated in Rajasthan, too.
Parasailing in India as an important facet of adventure tourism in India can give a never experienced high to a daring tourist who will rarely ever find such a spine tingling experience in any other out door indulgence he has ever undertaken.
Parasailing in India has another advantage attached to it. 
It provides the sailor with a bird's eye view of the place over which he or she is hovering. 
These are some of the delights which adventure tourism in India has to offer to the interested souls.
The site India Travel Destinations offers a vast array opportunities to the more adventurous of tourists to try their skills at river rafting in India which is another addition to the vast spectrum of activities carried on under the ambit of adventure tourism in India.
River rafting in India is yet another facet of tourism which is replete with the exuberance of youth and the skill of boatmen which are both natural qualities becoming extinct in the urban age of today where risk taking even in a leisurely mode has become an outmoded practice.
Yet a young and trained mind and body up to the physical challenges of a competitive life needs to experience the harsher face of nature in order to be fit to the task of survival and furtherance of oneself.
India Travel Destinations provides opportunities to undertake the daring -do sport of river rafting in India which is a much sought after adventure activity in the calendar of adventure tourism in India.
River rafting in India is carried out in varied spots of the order of Kumaon
Garwhal and even Karnataka which are part of the larger category of adventure tourism in India.
River rafting in India can also be referred to by a new and trendier nomenclature of river running which is what both the seasoned and neophyte river runners do in the killing and labyrinthine rapids of the Ganges and Bhagirathi.
They are the Mecca of river rafting in India and this sport is another facet of adventure tourism in India which surely is tourism with a differences going by the existence of so many rapids and deadly inclines in the river courses.
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours to Shimla within the status of a favorite and much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India for the prospective honeymooners in India as planning in advance saves a lot of time and financial resources.
Honeymoon in Shimla can be a gratifying experience going by the itinerary of places, which are on offer. 
Shimla, the capital of Himachal Pradesh serving as a Honeymoon Destination in India is all set to enthrall and mesmerize dewey eyed and moon gazing cozy twosomes who are out to live the most ebullient and cherished days of their lives and are virtually on the threshold of a life cusp. 
Special times need a special place and Shimla qualifies as that ideal Honeymoon Destination in India for these namby pamby honeymooners in India.
Couples who have a yen for adventure sports can go for a visit down Ski lane to Kufri, which is one of the best available Skiing fields in India. 
One can rest at Cafe Lalit which is run by Himachal Pradesh Tourist Department and enjoy the panoramic view from the heights of this place located in one of the most sought after Honeymoon Destinations in India for possible honeymooners in India. 
Yak rides are also on the offer for the celebrating couples.
Fagu is another peculiar picnic spot in Shimla, which can serve as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India as part of the Shimla circuit, for honeymooners in India.
Shimla, as a Honeymoon Destination in India is generously provided with Honeymoon Hotels serving the purposes of honeymooners in India, Himachal Pradesh.
Lekkar Bazaar is another chief draw for honeymooners in India with its wooden souvenirs and gift items specific to Himachal Pradesh. 
People interested for lonesome walks can opt for a visit to Jakhoo Hill. 
The Hill as a delight for the honeymooners in India, is dedicated to the Monkey God, Lord Hanuman which can be a kind of contradiction as Hanuman stands for celibacy but the long, meandering pathways of Jakhoo Hill are utilized by the beginners in the art conjugality.
India Travel Destinations takes the willing enthusiast to a trip down Shimla; one of the most commonly visited Hill Stations in India, Himachal Pradesh. 
An India Travel Destination tour takes the tourist to this Queen among the Hill Stations in India in Himachal Pradesh.
 Shimla is home to the vast natural Flora of the order of Cedars, Poplars and Rhododendron trees.
Shimla as one of the most popular Hill Stations in India is also home to two Churches of the order of Christ Church and the neo Gothic Tudor Library building.
Other attractions worth a visit in Shimla are Lakkar Bazaar, which is renowned for its local, Himachali souvenirs and it is next door to the Ridge, which is another cornucopia of lush green forestry and plantations. 
All this will be covered by a tour to Shimla undertaken by India Travel Destinations as the most primary Hill Station in India.
Another chief attraction in Shimla is Kufri, which is located at a height of 2501 meters and is fabled for its grassy meadows and seeable slopes. 
Himachal Pradesh Tourism completes the heady concoction with its Café Lalit at Kufri, adding up to the stately charm of this Hill Station in India, Himachal Pradesh.
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours to Shimla, a premier Hill Station in India throughout the year but for the slouchy rainy season it is a worth following proposition. 
Thus, Shimla being a gem of Hill Station in India with its old world British charm adding up to its completeness attracts a thick throng of tourists via tours to Shimla.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide initiates a series of package tours to Shimla, one of the most prominent Hill Stations in India via its various programmes plus furnishing information about Shimla.
The gateway to the North Eastern Part of India, Sikkim is another breadth-taxingly beautiful Hill Station in India, which is also coveted for its Strategic viability. 
The intersection with the Chinese border makes it particularly vulnerable to Tran’s border intrusions.
Sikkim with Gangtok as its capital city is another of those Hill Stations in India which are more in demand for the sake of their religious significance that is the Monastries, the giant Gompas and the Lamas, all belonging to the age of yore.
A tour to Sikkim would easily reveal that its biodiversity is rich with lots of delights on offer for wildlife and nature aficionados, alike. 
Sikkim, a unique Hill Station among other Hill Stations in India is remote due to its far-flung location. 
It includes two Zoological gardens, to quote a natural scientist. 
The number of Birds and butterflies is of the order of 500 and the orchids stand at a healthy number of 450.
Endangered species of the order of Snow Leopard, Blue Sheep and Musk Deer comprise the predominant fauna of Sikkim. 
Its rich Wild Life reserves also make it a prominent Hill Station in India. 
A tour to Sikkim would also usher in the knowledge about the existence of the bearded Vulture and the mammoth Himalayan Griffon. 
Then, a tour to Sikkim would reveal the presence of the graceful Impeyan Pheasant with its ecstatic and loud, electric blue plumage and none of them is lovelier.
Wild flowers such as the Wild Poppies are the ones, which are commonly grown in Sikkim as a prominent Hill Station in India. 
A tour to Sikkim would reveal that people in the cities like Gangtok have taken to planting and nurturing these wild beauties amidst their gardens in a well-systemized fashion and it has turned out to be fast developing hobby for some.
Apart from the thriving natural bounty of Sikkim, our major Hill Station in India, India Travel Destinations also organizes Tours to Buddhist seminaries and monasteries, which are symbolically innate to Sikkim, a prominent Hill Station in India.
India Travel Destination, out travel guide, provides an opportunity for fellow travelers to visit Sikkim and its attendant wilderness with its package tours and provides supplementary information on the propagated tour.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, offers a golden opportunity to partake of the stylish and debonair pleasures of skiing in India which is tourism with a difference.
 Skiing in India perforce refers to the various centers of skiing, which undertake skiing in India as part of a larger picture of adventure tourism in India.
Skiing is yet another offering of adventure tourism in India which is tourism with a difference. 
Skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience, which does not require special gear like other higher end sports of the same genre.
Any interested soul can take up the sport with a bit of discipline and a sense of following directions. Places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir, Auli in Garawhal, Kufri and Narkanda in Himachal Pradesh.
Skiing is one sport which is not limited to the mighty Himalayas or the hill stations alone. 
Water skiing is another addition to the whole structure of skiing in India but it is also very much a part of the whole calendar of skiing in India.
 "Swoosh" and away goes the water skier in this latest addition of adventure tourism in India.
Here, too as tourism with a difference, the tourist only needs to be aware of the basic skill of swimming as the boat easily accomplishes the rest of the tugging part.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you tour booking and online tour reservations for temple tours to the northeastern state of Assam, India. 
This state has a rich cultural heritage and has also been mentioned in the ancient Indian scriptures as Pragjyotisa.
There are several temples that are worth paying a visit to during your temple tours to Assam, India. Some of these temples are Kamakhya Devi temple, Surya Pahar temple, Hayagriva temple, Umananda Temple and the Shiva Temple.
The Kamakhya Devi temple is located at a little distance from Guwahati, the capital city of Assam, India. 
The Kamakhya Devi Temple in Assam, India is an important religious site that you may visit during your temple tours to Assam, India. 
This temple is regarded as one of the main Shakti shrines in India. 
The Kamakhya Devi Temple is situated on top of the Neelachala Parvat that is popularly known as Kamagiri. 
According to historical records this ancient temple was destroyed in the 16th century and was reconstructed in the 17th century. 
The temple deity is known as Kalika Purana.
The Hayagriva Temple is located at Hajo in Assam in India. 
This temple is dedicated to Hayagriva, an incarnation of the Hindu deity Lord Vishnu. 
While on temple tours to this region you will find that the walls of this ancient temple are adorned with sculptures of Dasavataras that depict Lord Buddha as an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.
The Umanand Temple is located at Bhasmachala in Assam in India. 
This is another interesting temple that you may visit during your temple tours to Assam, India. According to legend the Hindu deity Lord Shiva burnt the god of desire Kama to ashes.
The Surya Pahar Temple is located in Goalpara in Assam, India. 
You must visit this ancient temple during your temple tours to Assam in India. 
This ancient temple is an important center of sun worship in Assam, India.
The Shiva Temple located near Golaghat in Assam; India is another interesting temple site that you may visit during your temple tours to Assam, India.
The main Bana Lingam that is situated in the main sanctum of the temple has a number of Shiva Lingams carved on it.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details regarding tour packages for temple tours to the state of Bihar in India. 
Bihar has an extremely rich cultural background and has been an important center of study and learning in the olden times and has been the seat of Buddhist learning in the ancient past.
During your temple tours to this region you can visit temples like the Aranya Devi Temple, Durga Temple, Mandar Hill Temple, Kurkihar Temple, Chutia Temple, Hariharnath Temple, Mundesvari Temple, Parasnat Temple, Vaisali Temple and the Masarah Temple.
While on temple tours to Bihar in India you get an opportunity to discover the glorious religious heritage and past of India.
 In fact your temple tours to this region can be the most interesting experience ever simply because of the fact that a lot of people have not yet discovered the tourist attractions of Bihar, India, though the region has a lot of visitors from foreign lands.
Some of the temples that you may visit during your temple tours to the state of Bihar, India are: The Aranya Devi Temple has a special religious significance as according to legendary belief the Hindu deity Lord Krishna visited the local king for alms in the disguise of a hermit.
The Durga Temple is one place that you must visit during your temple tours to Bihar, India, as it is believed that this temple had a Pathshala or a village school where the famous writer Kalidas used to study.
The Mandar Hill Temple is another place that you must pay a visit to during your temple tours to Bihar, India as according to a commonly believed legend it was here that the Hindu deity Lord Vishnu defeated a demon and it is believed that this battle lasted for more than a thousand years.
The Kurkihar Temple is an important tourist site of religious importance in Bihar, India and thus definitely warrants a visit during your temple tours to this region.
The Chutia Temple is an important temple site in the Chotanagpur region of Bihar, India. 
The Chutia Temple is a small temple has according to historical records this temple was constructed sometime in the year 1685 A.D. by Hari Brahmachari, who was the educator and guru of the local ruler of the Samvat region in Bihar, India.
The Hariharnath Temple located in Sonepur in Bihar, India is an important tourist destination that you must visit during your temple tours to Bihar in India. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deities Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva.
The Mundesvari Temple is one of the earliest and finest examples of the Nagara architectural style. In fact this is one temple site that you must visit during your temple tours to Bihar, India.
Another temple in Bihar, India that is worth visiting during your temple tours to Bihar, India is the Parasnath Temple. 
The historical significance of this temple lies in the fact that the 23rd Jain Tirthankara achieved nirvana here.