Nong Khiew development center is located at Ban Rin Luang of Chiang Dao district, Chiang Mai, visitors can watch hill tribe villagers work on farms, weave fabrics, make knives, sing and dance for you.
To get to Nong Khiew, take a bus from Chiang Mai bound for Fang and get off at kilometre marker 32.
Huai Luek development center is located on Highway 107 about 95 kilometers from Chiang Mai, apart from watching village lifestyle, there are nurseries featuring orchids and and vegetable gardens.
Huai Luek development center has two houses where visitors can stay for the night.
Visiting ethnic minorities, a gem-cutting factory, hot springs are the other attractions in Mok Cham Development center.
Active travelers who like to explore deep into the forest can choose one of the 13 trails at Khao Yai.
Note that some trekking route should be guided by experienced forestry officials.
Although Khao Yai is only a few hours from Bangkok, the weather is cool all year round.
A visit during the rainy season is the best time to enjoy waterfalls, and the forest is at its peak of greenery.
Trails at the park are known for an abundance of leeches during the rainy season.
Park visitors can also ask park officials to arrange a night time outing to observe wildlife near the park office.
Malaysia's history starts generally around the establishment of the Malacca sultanate ,during the 13th century.
Following this time, events developing in China and the Roman Empire motivated Indian traders to seek a new port for their rich trade.
Malacca was chosen, based mainly on its advantageous location.
Spices and other precious goods were the main commodities traded at this new port, which flourished as the world's new major maritime trade point, especially for Indian, Arab and Chinese traders.
Malacca's profitable position was envied by many and resulted in the Portuguese invasion in 1511
After World War II, there was a resurgence of Malayan nationalism leading to the Declaration of Independence for the Federation of Malaya from the British Empire on August 31, 1957.
This movement was led by Tunku Abdul Rahman, who later became Malaysia's first Prime Minister.
Malaysia, at the time, comprised 13 states and two federal territories were formed in 1963.
Malaysia has 13 states: 11 on the Malayan Peninsula (West Malaysia) and two, Sabah and Sarawak, on the island of Borneo (East Malaysia).
Malaysia's capital city is Kuala Lumpur but the new administrative center is in Putrajaya, which is approximately a 30-minutes drive from the capital.
Malaysia lies at 7° North of the Equator and consists of West and East Malaysia.
West Malaysia is bordered by Thailand to the north, Singapore to the south, South China Sea to the east, and Straits of Malacca to the west.
East Malaysia shares its southern border with Indonesia, and is cradled by the South China Sea to the west and north, and the Sulu Sea to the northeast.
Although Malaysia is not an large country in terms of actual land area, but it has an enormously great deal to offer.
Malaysia is pampered with a warm tropical climate, with general temperatures ranging from 70° F to 90° F.
The East Coast of West Malaysia and the states in East Malaysia normally have their rainy seasons between November and February.
Malaysia is a land of ready smiles and incredible variety.
The rich diversity of experiences and contrasts beckons the worldly traveler, from city-lovers to adventure-seekers and much, much more.
In this land of friendly and fascinating people, you can get a taste of all of Asia in a single destination.
Come mingle with the country's population of more than 25 million people,. 
Joining them are the large Chinese and Indian populations, and groups of mixed descent, such as the Baba-Nyonyas and Eurasians of Portuguese and other European ancestry, as well as other immigrant Asian ethnicities.
The Malays and the native tribal groups make up approximately 60% of the total population.
Chinese 30%, Indians 8% and the balance a melting pot of other races and cultures.
Although Bahasa Malaysia is the official language, English is widely spoken In Malaysia.
Other prominent languages spoken - Mandarin, other Chinese dialects, Tamil, Punjabi.
Although the official religion of Malaysia is Islam, each person is free to practice his or her own faith.
The abundance of temples, mosques, churches and other places of worship bears testament to this.
Islam in Malaysia is rather tolerant and does not comply with the fundamental belief of extremists.
Malaysia remains one of the world's largest producers of rubber, palm oil, timber and tin.
In recent years, the manufacturing and service industries have become main contributors to the economy.
Exports of electronic products are one of the main contributors of the nation's economic growth.
Malaysia is one of the few Asian countries that has its own car manufacturing industry.
The stability of the economy and its political scenario has managed to attract tremendous foreign investment into the country
The country's major trading partners are Japan, the United States, Singapore, the United Kingdom and Germany.
The Malaysian unit of currency is the Ringgit Malaysia .
Currency comes in notes of RM1, RM5, RM10, RM50 and RM100.
Coins are issued in 1 sen, 5 sen, 10 sen, 20 sen, 50 sen and RM1 denominations.
All currencies brought into and out of the country must be declared by a Travelers Declaration Form, which can be obtained at Malaysia's entry and exit points.
Due to government regulations, non-residents are not allowed to bring in and out of the country more than RM1000.00 at any given time, but foreign currencies are not regulated.
Malaysia is eight hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Meridian Time?
Water is generally safe to be consumed from the tap, though boiling prior to consumption is advisable.
Kuala Lumpur originated as a shanty-mining outpost for the tin trade in the 1800's at the confluence of the Gombak and Klang Rivers.
Kuala Lumpur is the federal capital of Malaysia and is the principal center of commerce, politics, entertainment and international activities.
Kuala Lumpur serves as the pulse of the nation, with a population of 1.5 million people.
Also known as the Palace of Culture, the Istana Budaya is an imposing blue and white building featuring traditional Malay and contemporary elements.
The Istana Budaya has been hailed as one of Kuala Lumpur's most beautiful modern buildings and has been the site of many international shows and concerts.
It is located at Jalan Tun Razak, just outside the city center and the best way to get here is by taxi.
A short stroll away from the city's major hotels, the Menara Kuala Lumpur is the tallest telecommunications tower in South East Asia and the fourth tallest tower in the world.
The ceiling of the lift lobby is decorated using tiny mirrors, an Islamic art form technique.
High-speed lifts take visitors to an observation deck that provides a panoramic view of the entire city and beyond.
The revolving restaurant above serves a lunch and dinner buffet daily with Hi-tea, as well on weekends.
Facilities on the ground level include a pedestrian mall with a reflecting pool, mini theatre, amphitheatre and a restaurant.
100 - year old Jelutong tree stands preserved in the compound.
International events that take place here include the annual Kuala Lumpur International Towerthon.
Located at Bukit Nenas, buses and taxis are easily available to its entrance at Jalan Raja Chulan.
Almost every country has its own version of Chinatown and Kuala Lumpur's version, Petaling Street (P.S), is undoubtedly one of the most popular tourist attractions here.
Stocked with leather goods, t-shirts and loads of food, Petaling Street is the right place to make some cheap yet exciting purchases.
If you're looking to pick up items like watches, sunglasses, wallets, perfumes and other such accessories, there is no better place.
Take the Putra LRT to the Pasar Seni stop and walk over and it is also a short walk from the central bus station in the city.
Petronas Twin Towers The world's tallest freestanding twin towers are situated in the Kuala Lumpur City Center (KLCC).
Both of the 88-story towers soar more than 1,482 feet above the city skyline and are connected by a sky-bridge on the 41st floor
The sky-bridge is open to public from 8:30 am - 5 pm
Admission is free for up to 1,300 visitors per day, so come early to ensure entry.
Built on what used to be a race course, the towers and its adjacent complex hold the:
Petronas Philharmonic Hall A world class concert hall.
Galeri Petronas an elegant gallery exhibiting traditional, contemporary and modern art with an Experimental Space for young artistic talents.
The Art Resource Center here offers information on local artists, while the Galeri Petronas shop sells merchandise.
Petrosains, this high-tech, interactive science center provides each visitor with a hand-held computer that acts as a guide through exhibits.
On every Tuesday-Sunday, visitors can take rides that go through rainforests, flight simulators that take visitors to an off-shore oil platform, be entertained by a singing dinosaur, and much more.
Klocc Park is 0.07 sq mile park, designed by award-winning landscape artist Roberto Burle Max.
This city oasis offers a haven in the middle of bustling Kuala Lumpur.
Central Park is pre-war building was the principle wet market for Kuala Lumpur in the early years.
Central Park was extensively renovated in the 1980's into an arts and cultural center.
Central Park has become the place for local artists to demonstrate their skills and display their work.
There are numerous shops and stalls that sell bric-a-brac, antiques, souvenirs, handicrafts and Asian artifacts. An open-air stage serves as the regular venue for traditional and contemporary dance, as well as musical concerts.
The Central Market is just a stone's throw from the Klang Bus Station and is situated immediately behind the Dayabumi building.
Built in the 1880's, Taman Tasik Perdana (KL Lake Gardens) is the city's most popular and accessible park.
Taman Tasik Perdana covers an area of 0.354 sq. miles and has a children's playground, jogging tracks.
The Pangung Anniversari, set in a valley within the park, is the venue for regular musical and cultural performances.
Sultan Abdul Samad Building is Kuala Lumpur's most photographed building, designed by British Architect A.C. Norman, was built between 1894 and 1897.
The structure is a beautiful blend of Victorian and Moorish architecture and now holds Malaysia's Supreme Court and the High Court.
Just next to the Sultan Abdul Samad Building is the former City Hall, a similar Moorish-styled building.
With rainforests more than 150 millions years old covering large parts of Malaysia, one of the best ways to explore the length and breadth of this country is through jungle trekking.
The mountains and hills, the countless terrain and the national parks and forest reserves, make the nation a haven for jungle trekkers.
Jungle trekking can be classified according to the obstacles and terrain a person needs to maneuver and the density of the forest.
These classifications are: flat terrain, semi-cultivated terrain, cultivated terrain and primary and secondary forests.
Jungle trekking offers a rewarding and accomplishing experience.
Each trekker can discover the marvels of nature's diverse ecosystem?
These creatures include endangered species, like the Sumatran rhinoceros, Malayan tiger, tapirs and elephants.