The ruler does not levy a tax on the people who travel along the road together, leading their oxen on the way to trade and riding their horses on the way to sell.
King Ramkhamhaeng also promoted religion and culture, and through his efforts, Buddhism progressed among the people.
Inspirational faith gave birth to classic forms of Thai religious arts. Images of the Lord Buddha sculptured during the Sukhothai Era are cultural treasures which impart a feeling of peace and serenity.
Inspirational faith gave birth to classic forms of Thai religious arts. Images of the Lord Buddha sculptured during the Sukhothai Era are cultural treasures which impart a feeling of peace and serenity.
The end of this first Thai kingdom occurred in 1365 when it became a vassal state of Ayutthaya, a young and rising power to the south.
Ayutthaya became the capital of Thailand before Thon Buri and Bangkok.
Ubon Ratchathani has been a well established community for hundreds of years.
Relatively unknown to the most tourists, the Ubon Ratchathani boasts a number of natural wonders, cultural and historical attractions, national parks, silk producing shops, etc.
Ubon Ratchathani province is renowned for its strong Buddhist tradition, particularly the practice of forest-dwelling monks and the ancient Buddhist temples, which can still be seen throughout the province today.
A gateway to Laos, Ubon Ratchathani is bordered to the east by the Mekong River and Laos, to the south by Cambodia, to the west by Yasothon and Sisaket Provinces and to the north by Amnat Charoen Province.
The provincial capital of Ubon Ratchathani is approximately 630 kilometers northeast of Bangkok.
The province is unique in its folk culture, which is expressed in the indigenous cuisine, handicrafts, such as silk and cotton products, basketry, and bronze-ware, and traditional events such as the Candle festival held every July.
There are natural beauties and historical sites including the 4,000 years old rock formation, prehistoric rock paintings, national parks, waterfalls, and the two-colored river, etc.
Since the 10th century, Ubon Ratchathani, or simply Ubon, was part of the Khmer Empire until the Kingdom of Ayutthaya conquered it
Towards the end of the 18th century, Laotians immigrated to the northern banks of the Mun River and founded the provincial capital.
The Laotian influence is evident in the architectural structure of some of the city's religious buildings of Ubon Ratchathani.
The Laotian influence was told in the provincial seal which features a pond with a lotus flower and leaves in a circular frame.
It symbolizes the ancient community of the people who fled the massacre of King Siriboonsarn of Vientiane and came to settle in Nong Bua Lam Phu Province in 1779 during the reign of King Thonburi.
The ancient community the people, who fled the massacre of King Siriboonsarn, was established as a province with the name Ubon Ratchathani Srivanalai in 1792 during the reign of King Rama I, the first king of the Chakri Dynasty.
During the reign of King Rama V, Ubon Ratchathani was annexed to Lao Kao town.
Later in 1899, the area was under the supervision of Northeastern Monthon, with Ubon Ratchathani serving as an administrative hub. 
In 1900, the name was changed to Monthon I-San, when the Monthon system was abolished, the city has become Ubon Ratchathani province.
During the Vietnam War, Ubon encountered expansive growth due to its proximity to an American air base.
Today, the province of Ubon Ratchathani is the largest and one of the most important provinces in northeastern Thailand.
Due to the large number of fascinating temples dotting the city, Ubon is a place of pilgrimage at the beginning of Buddhist Lent.
The numerous attractions, festivals and holidays are celebrated with a unique Ubon flair in Ubon.
Located in the Korat Basin about 68 meters (227 feet) above sea level, most of Ubon Ratchathani is a plateau sloping to the east to meet the Maekhong River, a border between Thailand and the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic.
Other major rivers in the area Ubon are the Chee River, Moon River, Lum Saybok River, Lum Domeyai River and Lum Domenoi River.
There are some high mountain ranges in the south such as Bantad Range and Phanom Dongrak Range which border Ubon Ratchathani and the Lao Peoples Democratic Republic and the Kingdom of Cambodia.
The most important natural resource in Ubon Ratchathani is its forests, such as Teng-Rung forests, Red forests and mixed forests.
In the province, there are 50 national preserved forests, 3 national parks, 2 botanical gardens, 1 wild life preservation area and 1 botanical park.
There are highways and rail roads connecting different districts in Ubon Ratchathani with other provinces and there is one international airport located in Muang District.
People of Ubon Ratchathani are engaged in activities related to agriculture and livestock raising. 
Locals usually dwell in groups of houses, speak their own dialects and practice their traditionally handed down cultures.
People of Ubon Ratchathani are religious and still abide by tradition and culture.
The province of Ubon covers 15,517 square kilometers and is divided into the 25 districts.
Bangkok was founded in 1782 by the first monarch of the present Chakri dynasty. 
Bangkok is now the country's spiritual, cultural, diplomatic, commercial and educational hub. 
Bangkok covers an area of more than 1,500 square kilometres, and it is home to approximatlely ten million people or more than 10% of the country's population.
Over the last few decades, Thailand's capital city, Bangkok, has changed into a modern, exciting and sophisticated city.
Bangkok offers to visitors not only the cosmopolitan amenities they would expect from other big cities, but also a unique treasure trove of cultural attractions. 
Thailand, in the heart of Southeast Asia, was never colonised and thus kept its unique culture and heritage intact.
Bangkok offers visitors the opportunity to experience fascinating glimpse of Thailand's gentle culture amidst the bustle of a great and dynamic metropolis. 
Bangkok, the great city has had astounding success in combining the ancient and modern world.
For tourists, Bangkok has a feast of attractions to offer. 
Bangkok is dotted with 400 glittering Buddhist temples of great beauty and fascination, magnificent palaces, classical dance extravaganzas, numerous shopping centers and traditional ways of life.
Bangkok is especially along the "Venice of the East" timeless canals and the Chao Phraya River of the "River of Kings" winding through the city.
It is worth taking a trip along its waters before exploring further into different canals to take a glimpse of old Bangkok.
Experiencing the merging of the past into the present in Chiang Mai where locals are proud of the city's 700-year history.
Chiang Mai’s rich traditional heritage and unique culture is a perfect foundation for the development of the city.
Chiang Mai is one of the few places in Thailand where it is possible to find in the heart of the city centuries-old chedis and temples next to modern convenience stores and boutique hotels.
The original city layout still exists as a neat square surrounded by a moat with vestiges of the fortified wall and its four main gates offering prime access to the old town. 
For years, tourists have mistaken Chiang Mai as the northern junction and the base from which they can explore other provinces.
The phrase "a day in Chiang Mai is enough to see things around" was common.
Today, tourists are surprised by the fact that there is always something new to discover Chiang Mai.
Intriguing diversity among ethnic tribes coupled with breathtaking scenery makes Chiang Mai one of Asia's most attractive tourist destinations.
Two weeks in Chiang Mai may not be long enough for serious travelers.
The old city of Chiang Mai with its fascinating indigenous cultural identity such as diverse dialects, cuisine, architecture, traditional values, festivals, handicrafts and classical dances is a prime location in its own right.
In addition, the presence of hill tribes and their wealth of unique cultures enhance Chiang Mai's distinctive diversity.
Chiang Mai is also blessed with pristine natural resources of mountains (dois), waterfalls, and other nature-based tourist attractions.
At the same time, Chiang Mai residents are warm, gracious and congenial providing authentic hospitality making visits memorable and meaningful.
Visitors from all walks of life can collect handicrafts of silk, silver and wood produced locally as timeless souvenirs.
Chiang Mai is a place where both backpackers and luxury tourists can enjoy themselves to the fullest.
Chiang Mai literally means new city and has retained the name despite having celebrated its 700th anniversary in 1996.
King Meng Rai founded the city as the capital of the Lanna (A Million Rice Fields) Kingdom on Thursday, 12th April 1296 during the same period of time as the establishment of the Sukhothai Kingdom.
King Meng Rai the Great conferred with his friends, King Ramkhamhaeng of Sukhothai and King Ngam Muang of Phayao before choosing the site where the capital of the Lanna Kingdom was to be founded.
Chiang Mai not only became the capital and cultural core of the Lanna Kingdom, it was also the centre of Buddhism in northern Thailand.
Meng Rai himself was very religious and founded many of the city's temples, which are still important today.
At the height of its power, the Lanna Kingdom extended its territory far into Burma and Laos, and southwards to Kamphaeng Phet a province above Sukhothai.
The Burmese conquered the Lanna Kingdom in 1556 ending the dynasty founded by King Meng Rai that lasted over 250 years.
As Burma had occupied Chiang Mai for nearly 200 years, Burmese architectural influences are visible in many temples.
At the end of the 18th century, King Taksin the Great regrouped the Thais in the south and finally drove the Burmese out with the help of King Kawila of Lampang thereby regaining Thai independence from Burma.
Chiang Mai was then governed by a succession of princes who ruled the north as a Siamese protectorate under the Chakri dynasty.
In the late 19th century, King Rama V appointed a high commissioner in Chiang Mai and it was only in 1939 that Chiang Mai finally came under the direct control of the central government in Bangkok the same time the country was renamed Thailand.
In the past, Chiang Mai was only accessible by river and elephants.
The first motor vehicle driven directly from Bangkok arrived in Chiang Mai in 1932.
Such isolation was more favorable to Chiang Mai as it helped to nurture and preserve the unique Lanna culture.
When we look at Chiang Mai today, it is the economic, cultural and communications hub of northern Thailand complete with excellent infrastructure, good roads, by passes and road tunnels, and reliable communications infrastructure.
Chiang Mai, with an altitude of approximately 310 meters above sea level, is situated approximately 700 kilometers from Bangkok on the Mae Ping River basin.
Surrounded by high mountain ranges, the city of Chiang Mai covers an area of approximately 20,107 square kilometers and is the country's second largest province.
Chiang Mai borders Myanmar on the north, Lamphun and Tak Provinces on the south, Chiang Rai, Lampang and Lamphun Provinces on the east and Mae Hong Son Province on the west.
The terrain is mainly comprised of jungles and mountains, which are home to the hill tribes.
Wildlife and exotic flora may be found in the national parks of Chiang Mai Province.
Most of Chiang Mai's mountains are oriented from north to south.
Chiang Mai’s mountains create a multitude of streams and tributaries including Mae Chaem, Mae Ngat and Mae Klang.
One of Chiang Mai's distinctive features is Doi Inthanon, Thailand’s highest peak, which is 2,575 meters above sea level.
The province boasts flat, fertile valleys, which spread along the banks of the largest and most important river in Chiang Mai Mae Nam Ping (Ping River) which originates from the Chiang Dao mountain range.
Chonburi, Bangkok’s nearest seaside town, is located on the eastern coast of the Gulf of Thailand, only 80 kilometers from Bangkok.
The area of Chonburi boasts abundant natural resources, which are highlighted by delightful beaches, local colors, traditions, delicacies and fresh seafood.
Chonburi is a popular resort among Bangkokians who seek the nearest escape from hectic weekly schedules as Chon Buri has something for everyone.
Chon Buri is the center of the Eastern Seaboard Development Project, with its industrial parks and fishing villages.
Pattaya is nestled along a picturesque bay on the East Coast of the Gulf of Thailand, roughly 170 kilometers southeast of Bangkok.
From a fishing village in the 1960's, Pattaya has emerged as the favorite Southeast Asian vacation center.
A fascinating escape where tourists, holiday makers and vacationers from around the world unfold an incomparable array of possibilities to unwind during an exotic holiday beach vacation.
Unlike other beach resorts, where natural surroundings are used as magnets to attract tourists, Pattaya makes an all-out attempt to provide the best of everything.
Everything means everything a tourist can imagine while on holiday: recreation, entertainment, sports, sightseeing and fun.
To put it simply, Pattaya is a paradise for everyone, as it has a variety of attractions suitable for all types of visitors.
This is the place where you can fill your day, from dusk to dawn, with endless activities, or you may choose to do nothing at all and relax.
Pattaya City has been administered under a special autonomous system since 1978.
It has a status comparable to that of a municipality and is administered separately by the mayor of Pattaya City, who is responsible for making policies, organizing public services, and supervising all employees of Pattaya City Administration.