The Bull temple is believed to have been constructed in the 16th century AD.
 The grey granite sacred bull, Nandi, is the main attraction after which the temple has been named. 
It measures 4.57 meters in height and 6.10 meters in length. 
The Bull temple has been built by Kempegowda.
A four storeyed building made after the independence of the country, the Vidhana Soudha houses the State Legislative Assembly and part of the secretariat. 
The salient feature of the building is its architectural style which is a combination of ancient and modern styles blended into harmony. 
The building is illuminated on Sunday evenings.
The Tipu Sultan's Palace which is built of teakwood was constructed between 1781-1791. 
Particularly noteworthy are the floral designs on the walls and ceilings, After Tipu's death the palace was used as a Secretariat by the British until 1867.
The Lalbagh botanical garden, spread over 240 acres, was laid by Hyder Ali and developed by Tipu Sultan. 
It was originally called Lalbagh because the garden had a profusion of red roses.
 It also has a green house with a collection of various kinds of flora. 
The Glass House built on the lines of the Crystal Palace in London is the main attraction in this huge park.
In a city of gardens that Bangalore is, the Cubbon is a premier attraction for all those who seek some respite from the busy metropolitan life here. 
The 300-acre park was laid in 1864 by Lord Cubbon.
Jawahar Balabhavana- Bal Bhavan whizzes you into Childhood. 
Skin along in a boat, trot up a pony ride. Chug around in a toy train, wander about in the foir ground, and dress up your mind in the theatre. 
It's all there in Bal Bhavan - a bumper package of fun and entertainment. 
On January 14th every year. Something extraordinary happens in Bangalore's Gavi Gangadhareswara Temple. 
 On that day a ray of sunlight passes through an arch between the horns of stone bull that stands outside the temple and lights up the idol inside. 
It is a phenomenon that is proof of the technical excellence of ancient architects, of their knowledge of astronomy combined with great architectural skill. 
The temple itself is dedicated to Shiva and is a natural cave caved out of a monolithic stone.
The Planetarium is located on Sankey Road and has shows on all days except Mondays from 6.15 hours. 
The Bangalore aquarium is the second largest in the country. 
It is an ideal place to see a large variety of aqua-fauna at close quarters.
Centrally located Ulsoor Lake is spread over an area of 1.5 sq. km.
Ulsoor Lake is an ideal place for sightseeing, boating and shopping. 
A centre of attraction during Ganesh festival in August-September.
The Government Museum displays a collection of archaeological artifacts and the art gallery has a collection of the works of the noted artist of the court of Mysore K. Venkatappa.
Dalhousie Square (renamed Benoy-Badal-Dinesh Bagh after the three martyrs of Bengal) was created in the heart of the imperial capital of Calcutta. 
The tank in the centre, fed by natural springs, is said to have supplied Charnock with drinking water, historical buildings surround the square. 
The northern side is occupied by Writers' Building.
 To the east are commercial houses and the West Bengal Government Tourist Bureau.
On the western side is the imposing white domed General Post Office, next to which is the Reserve Bank of India building. 
Netaji Subhash Road is the centre of the onetime English commercial houses which today flourish in Indian hands. 
Lyon's Range stock exchange, behind Clive Street, is worth a visit for a glimpse of the frenzied dealing in shares, periodically erupting onto the street.
16.5 km. from Dakshineswar across the Ganga, Belur Math is the international headquarters of Ramkrishna Mission.
The Belur Math shrine represents a church, mosque and temple when viewed from different angles. 
20 km. Near Belur Math on the other (Calcutta) side of the Hooghly (Ganga) river, Dakshineswar Kali Temple is famous for its association-   with Ramkrishna who achieved spiritual vision here. 
This temple was built by Rani Rashmoni in 1847. 
The 12- spired temple with its enormous courtyard is surrounded by 12 other temples dedicated to Lord Shiva. 
20 km. Founded in 1787 by the East India Company, the main attraction of the 273-acre gardens being the banyan tree, largest in the world.
Visitors may drive across the bridge and through Howrah, the industrial extension of Calcutta or take ferry from Chandpal or Tekta Ghats to the gardens.
A major landmark Howrah Bridge, now so much a part of the city that Calcutta is inconceivable without it. 
Over 2,590 metric tonnes of high tensile steel make up this unique cantilever bridge that joins the main Railway Station (for Calcutta) and the industrial city of Howrah with the city of Calcutta. 
Opened in 1943 replacing a former pontoon bridge, it is today one of the busiest bridges in the world.
There are eight vehicular ways and two footpaths on this bridge on the river Hooghly.
As you circle the town by air or come in by train at Howrah station, the bridge dominates.
Indian Museum, popularly known as Jadu Ghar (Magic House), this is the premier national collection in the subcontinent.
Apart from the geological, zoological, botanical and anthropological galleries, there are outstanding archaeological exhibits. 
A minicoal mine is the main attraction. 
The galleries have working models in popular science, motive power, mining, metals, petroleum, electricity, communications and electronics. 
On Diamond Harbour Road, the Gurusaday museum has a small but rich collection of the folk arts and crafts on undivided Bengal.
On Chowringhee, this modern Nehru Children's museum houses miniature models in clay that depict scenes from the Ramayana and Mahabharata. 
Permanent galleries include medieval Bengali and indian miniature paintings, textiles and excellent specimens of old hand woven Daccai and Baluchari saris. 
A Jamini Roy collection and Desmond Doig's pen and ink sketches of Calcutta's nostalgic landmark are also on view.
 The Rabindra gallery contains paintings and manuscripts of the great man of letters.
The Asiatic society started a public museum in 1814. 
 A few pieces of sculpture include an image of Brahma (12th century). 
The Dalai Lama presented some beautiful tankhas. 
The Barhut Asokan Rock Edict (BC 250) in Pali written in the Brahmi script is one of the most important exhibits
Opened in 1991, Nicco Park is the first amusement park of Calcutta, 9 km from the city. 
On Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, Science City is an area of knowledge and adventure.
 Science City has Space Theatre. 
Space Flight, Dinosaurs Alive, Dynamotion, Life in Water, a world of Insects and Reptiles, walkthrough Aviary, Butterfly corner, Convention Centre, four seminar halls, Mini Auditorium, Musical fountain and many others.
The Fort William was named after King William llI of England, and in the fort are a church, market, post and telegraph office, cinema, swimming pool, boxing stadium, football and firing range.
An exclusive up gradation of the traditional 'haat'.
Dilli Haat is the first ever permanent fair for crafts, food and cultural activities in India. 
The craftsmen from all over the country and the cultural happenings provide a panoramic view of the richness and diversity of Indian handicrafts and artifacts. 
Dilli Haat also houses food stalls serving a variety of traditional food from different parts of India.
Built by the British, Connaught Place is quite close to the New Delhi railway station and a unique shopping spot. 
Palika Bazaar another famous underground shopping centre is located here.
Built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibek in 1199, the Qutub Minar minaret stands tall at an impressive height of 73 meters. 
One more work of wonder to be seen here is an iron pillar that still remains unrusted.
India Gate is a majestic arch, 42 meter high, is a war memorial in honor of the Indian soldiers who died during the First World War. 
The eternal flame (Amar Jawan Jyoti) burns beneath the arch to honor the memory of the unknown soldiers.
Lakshminarayan temple, a modern Hindu temple, built in 1938, is dedicated to Lord Vishnu and his consort Laxmi.
President's House, this palace like building was build by the British with a blend of Mughal and Western culture.
This impressive collonaded building houses the two houses of Parliament.
National Museum, it houses an excellent collection of bronzes, terracotta sculptures, paintings and costumes.
This Unique observatory Jantar Mantar was built by the Rajput King Sawai Jai Singh II in 1724. 
It was believed to have been built with machinery instruments for observing the movement of stars and planet.
Raj Ghat is the serene memorial of Mahatma Gandhi on the banks of Yamuna.
Shanti Vana is the cremation site of Jawaharlal Nehru.
Jama Masjid was built as the mosque of Shahjahan's capital city in 1658 and is the biggest in India.
This Old fort was built by Sher Shah in the 16th Century.
Situated atop the Kalka hill, the Bahai temple distinctive lotus shaped marvel in marble is surrounded by a landscaped garden.
Dedicated to the British soldiers who fell in the Sindh and Afghan campaigns of 1838 and 1843, this AFGHAN church also known as St. John's Church was built in 1847.
CHOWPATTY is a popular beach where celebration of festivals such as Coconut Day and the Ganesh Chaturthi immersions take place.
On the beach are statues of India's freedom fighters, Lokmanya Tilak and Vallabh Bhai Patel who symbolize the freedom struggle. 
Chowpatty occupies a special-place in the life of Mumbai, having been the venue of mass political meetings in the pre-independence era.
GATEWAY OF INDIA, this 26 meters high stone archway is the first landmark of Mumbai a visitor sees when arriving by ship. 
An equestrian statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji and statue of Swami Vivekananda have been installed here.
HAJI ALI MOSQUE is the tomb of a Muslim saint who died while on pilgrimage to Mecca. 
It is believed that a casket containing his mortal remains floated and came to rest on a rocky bed in the sea, where devotees constructed the tomb and mosque.
HIGH COURT, an attractive building built in 1878 in the early English Gothic style.
The walls of the Jain temple are adorned with colorful paintings depicting various incidents in the lives of the 24 Tirthankaras of the Jain religion.
Situated on the slopes of Malabar Hill, KAMLA NEHRU PARK is mainly a children's park named after the wife of India's first Prime Minister.
The poshest area of Mumbai, Malabar Hill has attractive residences, including the Chief Minister's house and a palatial state guest house.
The V-shaped building, which stands opposite Victoria Terminus (Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus) is designed in early Gothic style blended with Indian motifs.