According to legend, the origin of Pushkar dates back to the time when Lord Brahma was on his way in search of a tranquil land to perform a "Yagna", A lotus fell from the hand of the Lord into this valley.
Pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of India.
Beside trading of horse camels, cows and bulls, there are exciting camelcart races and cultural cents, clothes household items and leather goods are for sale during the fair on the full moon of Kartik , pilgrims take a holy dip in the lake.
Along the banks of the Pushkar Lake is the former residence of Raja Man Singh of Ajmer, Man Mahal.
Presently Man Mahal is covered to RTDC sarvour Tourist Bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers.
While Shopping in Aimer, one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing Rajasthani culture and style.
The 'Ittar' (perfume) is a major specialty of Ajmer.
During the Urs fair, folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices.
Shopping is a delightful experience in Pushkar fair; wide range of Handicraft items is displayed on roadside stalls.
From Ajmer the nearest airport is Jaipur which is 135kms away.
Ajmer is connected with bus from all places like Jaipur, Agra, Aligarh, Abu road, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Barmer, Haridwar, Chittorgarh, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Nagaur.
Ajmer the city where the Dargah of the Great Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage.
Hallowed by the memories of the great seer, Ajmer has earned the epithet of Madinatul Hind or the Madina of India.
South west of Jaipur, Ajmer is an oasis wrapped in the green hills.
The Ajmer city was founded by Raja Ajay Pal Chauhan in the 7th Century A .D. and continued to be a major centre of the Chauhan power till 1193 A .D. When Prithviraj Chauhan lost it to Mohammed Ghauri.
Today, Ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the Hindus as well as Muslims.
Ajmer is especially famous for the Dargah Shariftomb of the Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti, which is equally revered by the Hindus and Muslims.
Ajmer is a centre of culture and education, the British chose it for its prestigious Mayo College a school exclusively for Indian nobility.
Ajmer is also the base for visiting Pushkar (11 km.), the abode of Lord Brahma, lying to its west with a temple and a picturesque lake.
The Pushkar Lake is a sacred spot for Hindus.
During the month of Kartik (Oct. /Nov.), devotes throng in large numbers here to take a dip in the sacred lake.
Ajaipal Chauhan founded Ajmer in the seventh century.
Ajmer was also favorite residence for the great Mughals.
The bus stand in Ajmer is located near the RTDC hotel Khadim and the railway is further north and most of the hotels are west of the stations.
Khwaja saheb is also known as Sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar.
Khwaja Ishaq Shami, one of his predecessors settled in a hamlet called Chishti near Hirat.
Khwaja saheb is the landmark of Ajmer and one of the holiest of Muslim shrines in the country.
The red temple is a Digambar Jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple.
The hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from Jain mythology.
The entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic, precious stones, gold and silver work. 
The fort also has Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter. 
The fort also has Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter.
The fort is a masterpiece of Indo Islamic architecture.
The 'Baradari' pavilion was built by Shah Jahan, to facilitate his long stays in Ajmer.
The Baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot.
Places to See in Ajmer at the foot of a barren hill, is situated India's most important Pilgrimage centre for people from all faith.
Centuries after Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti’s demise, his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind.
It is believed that Khwaja Saheb had a vision of Ajmer in a dream while in Madina, and he also received the spiritual inspiration to come here.
In the corner of the inner court of the Dargah, is a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow court having low arcade and delicate carvings with trellis work. 
A remarkable structure, this is a masterpiece of indo Islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the Ajmer city.
The fort was the site of the military activity during the Mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the British.
Once the royal residence of Emperor Akbar, the museum houses a rich repository of the Mughal and Rajput armor and exquisite sculptures.
The former British Residency, overlooking the artificial lake, Ana sagar, has now been converted to the circuit House.
The lake and the cenotaph and the shrine of the Hindu reformer Swami Dayanand, founder of the Arya Samaj movement in India, can be viewed from here.
A place to See in Alleppey Kuttanad, called the rice bowl of Kerala because of her wealth of paddy crops, and is at the very heart of the backwaters.
The scenic countryside of Kuttanad with its shimmering waterways also has a rich crop of banana, cassava and yam; this is perhaps the only region in the world where farming is done 1. 5 to 2 m below sea level.
Inland waterways which flow above land level are an amazing feature of this region.
Inland waterway is one of the most popular picnic spots in Alappuzha.
Entertainment facilities at the Vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach.
There is also an old lighthouse which is greatly fascinating to visitors.
According to mythology a young brahmin dived into the Vembanad Lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for land to rise from below, thus creating the enchanting island of Pathiramanal (sands of midnight). 
This little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world.
The island lies between Thaneermukkom and Kumarakom, and is accessible only by boat.
The ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the Serpent God Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are the beloved consorts of Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are the beloved consorts of Nagaraja.
One of the oldest churches in Kerala, the St Mary's Church is believed to be one of the seven established by St Thomas.
It is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer, receive favors and feel amply gratified.
Here, a 250 year old historically important beacon of light is preserved intact in its original and primitive form Built in the typical Kerala architectural style, this temple is famous all over India for the Palpayasam, the daily offering of deliciously sweet milk porridge.
Paintings of the Dasavatharam are on display on the inner walls of the Chuttambalam Ottanthullal, a satiric art form originated by the poet Kunchan Nambiar, was first performed on the premises of this temple.
The St Sebastian's Church here is an important Christian pilgrim centre.
Annual festival Arthunkal Perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810, the church is dedicated to St George.
It is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments.
During the annual feast (5th, 6th and 7th of May) pilgrims from all parts of South India, irrespective of caste and creed, visit the church and seek the blessings of the saint.
The Kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees.
Built by Marthanda Varma, this palace at Karthikapally in Kayamkulam is famous for its mural depicting the story of Gajendramoksham Dating back to the 18th century; this exquisite piece of art is one of the largest murals in Kerala.
Many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of Lord Buddha.
Referred to as the Venice of the East by travelers from across the world, this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life. 
By virtue of its proximity to the sea, the town has always enjoyed a unique place in the maritime history of Kerala.
Today, Alappuzha has grown in importance as a backwater tourist centre, attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year.
Alappuzha is also famous for its boat races, houseboat holidays, beaches, marine products and coir industry.
A land of lush paddy fields, Kuttanad is called the Rice Bowl of Kerala and is one of the few places in the world where farming is done below sea level.
The city of Allahabad is among the largest cities of Uttar Pradesh and situated at the confluence of three rivers Ganga, Yamuna and the invisible Saraswati.
The meeting point is known as Triveni and is especially sacred to Hindus.
PRAYAG is one of the historic & mythological cities of India with glorious past and present.
Allahabad is a city of mixed culture of Hindu,Muslims, Jains and Christans.
According to Hindu Mythology, Lord Brahma, the creator God of the Trinity, chose a land on earth (ie Prayag) to perform Prakrista Yag, at the beginning of the creation and he also refereed to it as Tirth raj or the King of all pilgrimage centers.
As per writing of Padam Puran as the sun is amongst the moon and the moon amongst the stars, likewise Prayag is best amongst all places of pilgrimage.
The bathing at Prayag is mentioned in Brahma Puran s in the month of Magha at the bank of Ganga Yamuna in Prayag bestows results of millions and millions of Ashvmedha YajnaPrayag is birth place of Som, Varuna and Prjapati.
Prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in Brahmanical (Vedic) and Buddhist Literatures.
The Present Jhunsi is a very close to sangam was the kingdom of Chandrabanshiya (lunar clan) king Pururava.
1575 AD Emperor Akbar founded the city in by the name of ILLAHABAS which has now become ALLAHABAD meant.
Allahabad has been rich in numerous Victorian and Georgian buildings made in synthesis with Indian architectural traditions. 
This Allahabad city was the heart of the Indian Freedom Movement against the British rule with Anand Bhawan being the epicenter; it was in Allahabad the Mahatama Gandhi proposed his program of nonviolent resistance to liberate India.
Allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city.
From the days of civilization Allahabd has been seat of learning, wisdom and writing.
Allahabd is the most vibrant politically spiritually conscious and spiritually awakened city of India.
The holy place SANGAM is the place where the three holy rivers GANGA, YAMUNA, and the mythical SARASWATI merge into one.
SANGAM offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset.
The place comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting millions of devotees from all across the country.
The place comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting millions of devotees from all across the country.
The lofty Allahabad fort, built by Emperor Akbar in 1583 AD, on the bank of river YAMUNA stands close to the SANGAM.
For a celestial trip of the scientific kind, visit the planetarium its worth every moment here you can take your weight on Moon and Jupiter, a moon model on display.
When Gandhiji started Salt Satyagraha in 1930, Allahabad took a leading part at present it houses office of Jawahar Lal Nehru Fund and a children school for creative Art.
Allahabad one of the oldest cities of India and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh Melas held every twelve and six years respectively.
Allahabad is also known for its annual Magh Mela (mini Kumbh Mela) and colorful Dussehra festival.
The present city of Allahabad was founded by the Mughal emperor Akbar in 1575 A .D. realizing its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north India, Akbar built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy 'Sangam'.
Every 12th year during the months of Jan, Feb world famous Kumbh Mela is held here on the banks of the holy Sangam Ardha Kumbh Mela is held every 6th year.
The Magh Mela is the annual version of the Kumbh and Ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from Makar Sankranti in Jan.and ends at Maha Shivratri in Feb.
A fabulous Sita Ram Temple in the palace attracts number of devotees, especially during Ramnavami.