During the years that followed, the Dakota and Anishinabe tribes were forced to sign treaties to relinquish most of Minnesota to the U.S. government.
By 1862, the Dakota were crowded into a small reservation along the Minnesota River.
Times were had and Indian families hungry. When the U.S. government broke its promises, some of the Dakota went to war against the white farmers and towns.
Many Dakota did not join in, but the fighting lasted six weeks and many people on both sides were killed or fled Minnesota.
When the U.S. government broke its promises, some of the Dakota went to war against the white farmers and towns.
Many Dakota did not join in, but the fighting lasted six weeks and many people on both sides were killed or fled Minnesota.
Afterwards the government forced most of the remaining Dakota to leave Minnesota.
The Dakota who stayed and those who eventually returned have formed four communities in southern Minnesota.
Large number of immigrants came to Minnesota beginning in the 1830s to work in lumbering and farming.
They were mainly from the eastern United States, Canada, and northern Europe.
By 1900, the combined total of Scandinavians from Norway, Sweden, and Denmark outnumbered those from any single county.
French Canadians, Swedes, Norwegians, Danes, Germans, and Irish were among the first foreign-born settlers of Minnesota.
Late in the 1800s numerous immigrants from Finland, Poland, and Czechoslovakia also settled in Minnesota.
The largest number of people of foreign heritage in Minnesota are Germans, who are found mostly in the southern and central portions of the state.
Wisconsin's original inhabitants were the Winnebago, Dakota (Sioux) and Menominee Indians.
The spread of settlers in the East brought the Ottawa, the Huron, and other Native American tribes into Wisconsin, where they in turn displaced native tribes.
The fur trade flourished despite the 50-year war between the Fox and the French, and the historic Fox-Wisconsin portage was used by generations of traders from Green Bay and Prairie du Chien in their search for beaver and other furs.
In what was known as the Black Hawk War, Sauk Indians (led by Black Hawk) made their last stand in Wisconsin in 1832.
French traders and missionaries who followed Nicolet included Radisson and Groseilliers, Marquette and Joliet (who discovered the upper Mississippi), and Aco and Hennepin (from La Salle's party).
Green Bay became the center of the Wisconsin fur trade, and Nicolet formally claimed the entire region for France in 1686.
In 1763, the Treaty of Paris ceded formerly French-controlled land, including the Wisconsin region, to the British, who later passed it on to the United States.
The population boomed during the 1820s as miners flocked to lead mines in southwest Wisconsin. 
As the region's great agricultural potential became apparent, many easterners began arriving via the new Erie Canal and the Great Lakes after 1825, settling in the Milwaukee area and along waterways.
In 1774, Britain passed the Quebec Act, making Wisconsin part of the province of Quebec.
The Old Northwest (which included Wisconsin) formally passed to the United States in 1783 and was made a part of the Northwest Territory in 1787.
Northwestern strongholds were turned over to the Americans after Jay's Treaty was signed in 1794.
Prior to 1640, the state of Illinois including both sides of the Mississippi River from Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin to the mouth of the Ohio, and then south along the west bank to the Arkansas River.
The dominant tribe in the region before 1655, their hunting territory extended into western Kentucky and across Missouri and Iowa, the latter provoking occasional skirmishes with the Pawnee and Wichita on the plains.
Father Jacques Marquette, French-born missionary of the Jesuit order, and Louis Jolliet, Canadian explorer and mapmaker, were the first Europeans to view the land on which the City of Chicago was to stand in 1673.
In 1673, at the close of the French and Indian War, the Treaty of Paris ceded to England all lands France had claimed east of the Mississippi River, except for New Orleans in Louisiana.
The British continued to control what is now Illinois until 1778 when George Rogers Clark, a Revolutionary War hero, and his band of American colonists captured Fort Kaskaskia.
The Illinois country became a possession of Virginia until 1787 when it joined the Northwest Territory under the government of the United States.
Kaskaskia became Illinois’ first capitol in 1818. Two years later the seat of Illinois government was moved to Vandalia.
In 1839, largely through the efforts of a young legislator named Abraham Lincoln, the capitol was again moved, this time to Springfield, where it is now open to the public as an historic site.
In 1871 a fire started in the cow barn at the rear of the Patrick O'Leary cottage at 137 DeKoven Street on Chicago's West Side.
Thousands of years before the French reached Illinois, Paleo-Indians, a nomadic people, and their descendants, archaic Indians, had explored Illinois.
Middle Mississippi Indians, who succeeded the Woodland Indians, built large earthen mounds and developed complex urban areas.
The descendants of the Mississippians were the Illiniwek tribes of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries.
After years of losing land and wars to other Indian groups and European colonists, the Illiniweks were moved to a Kansas reservation.
The French controlled areas along the Mississippi River valley in the American Bottoms between Cahokia and Kaskaskia.
European control was ended by the U.S. militia of George Rogers Clark in 1778, whereupon Virginia claimed Illinois as within its territory.
Large-scale European immigration provided labor to mine coal, run steel mills, and enhance the economy and culture of the state.
By 1920, Illinois was counted among the foremost states in nearly every significant growth variable coal mining, industry, farming, urbanization, transportation, and wholesaling.
Illinois’s leadership was achieved despite the economic slumps of the 1880s, 1890s, and early 1900s; the labor disputes in coal mining and railroading; the Chicago fire of 1871; and the problems caused by organized crime.
Immigrants, families and workers added to overall state diversity and helped fuel a Chicago-area boom in which the city gained population for the first time in 50 years.
The number of Hispanics grew by nearly 70 percent and the group now accounts for 12.3 percent of the state's population. 
The Magnolia State, Bayou State, Eagle State and Border-Eagle State, Mud-cat State, Mississippi was after the Mississippi River, whose Chippewa Indian name means "large river".
The climate of Mississippi is characterized by long, hot, and humid summers and generally mild winters.
First explored for Spain by Hernando De Soto, who discovered the Mississippi River in 1540, the region was later claimed by France.
the region was later claimed by France. In 1699, a French group under Sieur d'Iberville established the first permanent settlement near present-day Ocean Springs.
Anglo-Saxon settlers from the older seaboard states flocked to Mississippi's virgin lands, bringing black slaves to work their fields, and until 1940 blacks outnumbered whites.
Relations between the races have tended to shape Mississippi's history and to foster a conservative political philosophy and an insistence on state's rights among its white majority
The Heart of Dixie; historically, Yellowhammer State, Alabama (thicket clearers) takes it name from the Alabama River, which in turn was named for the Alabama Indian tribe.
Alabama is sometimes called the Heart of Dixie because of its central location among the Southern states.
Alabama‘s piney woods and grand old oak and magnolia trees range east to west from Georgia to Mississippi, north to south from Tennessee to Florida.
Alabama has warmth and sunshine for the greater part of the year while the Spring arrives early, with the weather warming to the 60s Fahrenheit daily by March.
National Parks, Forest & Monuments include Little River Canyon Preserve, Russell Cave, William B. Bankhead, Conecuh, Talladega, and Tuskegee.
The first permanent European settlement in Alabama was founded by the French at Fort Louis de la Mobile in 1702 and was the French Louisiana capital until it was moved from Mobile west to Biloxi in 1720.
In 1724 the French Code Noir extended from the French West Indies to the North American colonies, institutionalizing slavery in Mobile area.
The British gained control of the area in 1763 by the Treaty of Paris, but had to cede almost all the Alabama region to the U.S. after the American Revolution. 
The capture of Mobile in 1780 by the Spanish during American Revolution retained the West and East Floridas as part of a war-ending treaty.
From 1805 to 1806, Indian cessions ( Choctaw, Chichasaw, Cherokee) are opened up to white settlement and by 1810 West Florida, from Pearl River to the Mississippi is annexed by U.S. from Spain
The Spanish surrender Mobile to American in 1813 then a year later, a failed British forces attack on Fort Bowyer (Mobile Point) abandons plans to capture Mobile, a second attempt in 1815 succeeds.
However, learning that the War is over, the British pack up and go home.
The Alabama Territory was created when Congress passes the enabling act allowing the division of the Mississippi Territory and the admission of Mississippi into the union as a state.
On January 11, 1861 the Alabama Secession Convention passes an Ordinance of Secession, declaring Alabama a "Sovereign and Independent State."
Jefferson Davis is inaugurated as president of the Confederate States of America on February 18th of the same year.
From 1861-1865 (Civil War) Alabama saw 194 military land events and 8 naval engagements.
In 1931 nine black youths (Scottsboro Boys) are arrested in Paint Rock and jailed in Scottsboro, the Jackson County seat.
Based on questionable evidence, the convictions by an all-white jury generated international outrage.
In 1954 Democratic nominee for state Attorney General, Albert Patterson campaigned to clean-up Phenix City and deems it "the wickedest city in America."
In 1955, Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, is arrested for refusing to give up her seat for a boarding white passenger as required by Montgomery city ordinance.
By 1956, The Supreme Court ruling banning segregated seating on Montgomery’s public transit vehicles goes into effect.
Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks were among the first people to ride a fully integrated bus, ending the historic year-long Montgomery Bus Boycott.
Alabama today remains largely a black-and-white state, with 71 percent of residents identifying themselves as white only and 26 percent as black only.
The Peach State, Goober State, Cracker State, Georgia was named by James Oglethorpe for King George II.
Along the Coastal Plain and in much of the Piedmont, summers are generally hot, and winters are mild.
Although never formally designated as such by the British, Savannah was the center of colonial government in Georgia for half a century.
Georgia, the last of the 13 British colonies established on the Atlantic seaboard, was founded by James Edward Oglethorpe with 114 original settlers on February 12, 1733, at the present site of the city of Savannah. 
As more people settled in the colony of Georgia, the Spanish in the Florida area became increasingly uneasy at the growing British presence.
On July 7, 1742, Oglethorpe, then "General and Commander in Chief of the Forces of South Carolina and Georgia", defeated the Spanish at the Battle of Bloody Marsh on St. Simons Island, removing the Spanish threat to Georgia.
In 1758 the province of Georgia was divided into eight parishes, with four new parishes added in 1765.
When Georgia’s independence from British rule was declared in January of 1776, an Executive Council was elected, and the revolutionary state government made Savannah its capital.
Upon the fall of Augusta in 1779, the government was located temporarily at Head’s Fort in Wilkes County from February 1780, to July 1781.
The legislators paused en route for several days to conduct business at Ebenezer, a small German settlement. 
The war was fought not only between American and British forces, but also between citizens who became revolutionaries, the Whigs, and those still swearing allegiance to the king, the Tories.
Between 1783 and 1785, the Georgia Assembly rotated between Savannah and Augusta, and the governor divided his official residence between the two cities. 
Later, after the transfer of the capital, the building was used as a county courthouse and finally was destroyed. 
The desire for land, and later gold, created a swift expansion beyond the old frontier, carrying with it increased trade along rivers and migration of people along new roads into the wilderness.
The primary basis for this new growth and economic expansion was the production of cotton thorough a slave labor system. 
In 1860 the national debate over the extension of slavery into new territories reached a crescendo.
During the Civil War (1861-1865), Georgia lost nearly 120,000 men and boys in battle as well as much of the state’s material wealth.
There were political conflicts between the newly enfranchised black citizens who, for the first time, were allowed to hold seats in the Legislature, and the prewar social structure, which sought to minimize the changes it had to accept in its traditional way of life.
Most white Georgians are of British descent. The first settlers in Georgia came mainly from England but also included some Germans, Austrians, and Swiss.
After the Civil War many blacks were unable to survive as farmers and moved to Northern cities.
Sunshine, Orange State, Everglades / Alligator State, Florida was named for the day on which it was discovered (April 2, 1513) by Spanish explorer Ponce de León, who called it La Florida in honor of Pascua Florida, the Spanish Feast of the Flowers at Eastertime.
Florida has a semi-tropical climate ideally suited for outdoor activities.
National Parks & Monuments include Big Cypress Reserve, Biscayne, Dry Tortugas, Everglades, Castillo de San Marcos, Fort Matanzas.
Florida was settled long before Europeans had discovered the peninsula.
Some estimates suggest that Native Americans had arrived in Florida as early as 10,000 years before the first Europeans.