Muhammad Hanif was the superintendent of Masons.
The designer of Taj Mahal was Ustad Ahmad Lahauri.
The material for Taj Mahal was brought in from all over India and central Asia and it took a fleet of 1000 elephants to transport it to the site.
For Taj Mahal red sandstone was brought from Fatehpur Sikri, Jasper from Punjab, Jade and Crystal from China, Turquoise from Tibet, Lapis Lazuli and Sapphire from Sri Lanka, Coal and Cornelian from Arabia and diamonds from Panna.
In all 28 kind of rare, semi precious and precious stones were used for inlay work in the Taj Mahal.
For Taj Mahal the chief building material, the white marble was brought from the quarries of Makrana, in distt.Nagaur, Rajasthan.
Taj Mahal Architecture has an impressive watercourse, which neatly divides the garden into four equal parts and heightens the flawless symmetry of the entire complex.
The canals and waterworks within the Charbagh provide a grand reflection of the Taj, further emphasizing the imagery of the paradise.
The architects who built the Taj Mahal made the canals and the waterworks in the garden, with the purpose of generating an upside down image of the Taj, to gel with the divine inspiration.
After the completion of Taj Mahal each garden within the Charbagh was divided into 16 flowerbeds, making a total of 64. It is said that each flowerbed was planted with 400 plants.
In Taj Mahal trees were planted carefully in accordance with the symmetry of the overall plan.
These trees housed some of the most exotic birds, all of which added to the breathtaking environs of the Taj.
The water channels crisscrossing the garden used to be full of colorful fish of various species.
Special care was taken to maintain the garden, its waterworks as members of the royal family frequented it and stayed in the guesthouse (mehmankhana) near it.
The city of Agra is world famous for the Taj Mahal, built by the Mughal emperor Shahjahan in memory of his beloved wife.
However, it is also famous for the Agra Fort, which is a veritable treasure trove of the Mughal architectural tradition.
The various buildings within this sprawling fort complex represent the assimilation of different cultures, which was the mark of the Mughal period.
The structure of Taj Mahal adheres to the Islamic style (Mughal style) of architecture, which flourished in India during the medieval period.
The Islamic style of architecture is also referred to as the IndoIslamic style of architecture.
This magnificent monument is set around a Charbagh or four garden plan, which is split by watercourses a reflection of the Persian style.
Ajanta Caves Tour about 107 kms from the city of Aurangabad, the rock cut caves of Ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge, in the form of a gigantic horseshoe.
Among the finest examples of some of the earliest Buddhist architecture, caves paintings and sculptures, these caves comprise Chaitya Halls, or shrines, dedicated to Lord Buddha and Viharas, or monasteries, used by Buddhist monks for meditation and the study of Buddhist teachings.
The paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of the Buddha and various Buddhist divinities.
Among the more interesting paintings are the Jataka tales, illustrating diverse stories relating to the previous incarnations of the Buddha as Bodhisattva, a saintly being who is destined to become the Buddha.
Occupied for almost 700 years, the caves of Ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly.
Cascading down the cliff is a spectacular waterfall, which at the bottom feeds a natural pool called the Saptakunda.
Ajanta has been designated as a, to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will continue to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come.
The caves of Ajanta can be classified into two distinct phases the earlier Hinayana phase , in which the Buddha was worshipped only in the form of certain symbols.
The history of Elephanta is the hoary mists of time.
Attendant gulls hover motionless overhead, an occasional fish leaps out of the wake furrowing behind it is a pleasant hour and 15 minutes to Elephanta.
Once known as Puri later Gharapuri this island was the proud capital of a powerful coastal kingdom and the great cave shrine in praise of Shiva, excavated in the sixth century, added to the ruling dynasty.
Several centuries later the Portugese took possession of the island.
Ajanta Finished Caves is one of the finest monasteries at Ajanta.
Ajanta Finished Caves is a representation of the Miracle of Shravasti when the Buddha manifested himself in thousand forms.
Ajanta Finished Caves have a central doorway embellished with guardians, flying figures, maidens clutching trees and also images of the Buddha and Ganas, or dwarfs, with garlands.
Mumbai is India’s International gateway.
The temples of Khajuraho are brilliant example of medieval Indian Architecture.
The reservations of the room can be made well in advance as per the requirements of the tour.
The best way to know about the glorious heritagrof New Delhi is to know its monuments.
Indian houses many luxurious hotels and resorts to cater to its booming travel and traveling industry.
Fatehpur Sikiri is a city built in Red Sandstone.
The terrific Taj Mahal happens to be the most popular monuments in the entire world.
Tourists from all over the world come to see backwater.
In order to promote tourism in the north-east region, the Governmant of India has decided to allow foreign tourists to visit Nagaland.
The age old art of dyes and colours hold the centre of attraction.
The original palace was built by Rja Man Singh and additions were made later by Sawai Jai Singh.
India is a vast countryu and its physical boundries are spread far and wide.
Kerala enjoys unique geographic features which has made it one of the most sought after tourist destinations in Asia.
India offers some unique destinations that are best reached in jeeps.
There are some things that are really hard to find in Lakshadweep.
The Hall,which has a collection of hunting trophies, has now been converted into a museum.
About one percent of the population of Kerala and Tamilnadu are tribal, where as about six percent in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are members of tribes.
Built by Maharaj Gang Singh in memory of his father, the Lalgarh palace is situated 3 km north of Bikaner city.
India, a place of infinite variety, is fascinating with its ancient and complex culture.
The beauty of Kerala cannot be just written or explained, it has to be experienced.
Kerala shares its western border with the Arabian Sea.
Near the gardens of Taj Mahal stands the Mughal monument known as Red Fort of Agra.
Hawa Mahal is the most recognizable monument of Jaipur.
City Palace is situated in the heart of city, it occupies about one seventh of the old city area.
Gaitore is the final resting place of the Maharajas of Jaipur and is located just off the Jaipur Amber road.
Jaipur is well connected to Delhi, Bombay, Ahemadabad through regular flights of Indian Airlines.
Rajasthan is the safest state in India in terms of law and order; it offers to its tourists a safe and secure environment.
Jaipur is 262 kms from Delhi and is well connected by road; rail and air from all aver the country.
India has something for everyone looking for adventure.
The west coast offers sailing in Mumbai, Goa and the lakes around Pune.
The best months for water sports are October and March.
India is home to a rich diversity of wildlife.
There is a tourist dictionary written for ordinary citizens.
India harbours eighty percent of the entire population of the one hundered rhinoceros in the world.
The construction of Imperial Bombay continued well into the 20th century.
The water works, including the Hanging Gardens and the lakes were also built at this time.
The boat race held in the backwaters of Karala is another event that just should never be missed.
A few facts about the climate are that Kerala does not have a dry spell as is in rest of India.
Jaiselmer Fort is the oldest fort in the world.
The first brush with royality could be had on the palace on wheels, the tourist train run by the Rajasthan Tourism Department.
Horse safaris are organized in the Marwar region of Rajasthan.
The city of Jaipur is capital to the northern Indian state of Rajasthan famous for its colorful culture, forts, palaces and lakes.
India, long considered only a “culture” destination, is in addition the ultimate “outdoor” destination as well as with wide ranging options for adventure.
The 14th century Hill-Fort, Kesroli is the oldest heritage site in India where you can stay.
This is 500-year-old standing still in time.
Jaipur is color washed pink to welcome prince Albert, the consort of Queen Victoria of England who visited India in 1883 A.D.
The dance is usually performed on specially put up stages in connected with temple festivals.
Palace on wheels is a journey worthy of Kings.
Regular luxury buses are available round the clock and special trains like the Shatabadi Express and Intercity Express.
Finished Caves is one of the finest monasteries at Ajanta.
About 107 kms from the city of Aurangabad, the rock cut caves of Ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge, in the form of a gigantic horse shoe.
The history of Elephanta is the hoary mists of time.
Aurangabad, the closest railhead, is directly connected to Mumbai, Delhi, Agra, and Bhopal.
Aurangabad is connected to all major cities and towns by good roads.
The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation runs ordinary and luxury buses from Aurangabad to Mumbai.
Ajanta Unfinished Caves are unfinished monasteries of the second phase of excavation.
The present splendid dome over the Mazar was constructed by emperor Shahjahan, who also constructed the Jama Masjid in the year 1638. 
The main entrance to the dargah, the Nizam gate is of 70 feet height, it was constructed by the Nizam of Hyderabad.
The historic Buland Darwaza, which is 85 feet high, was constructed by Sultan Ghayasuddin of Mandu.
The Mehfil Khana or the main hall of the Dargah is the place where Qawwalis are sung throughout the year.
The northern side of the Dargah has a Langar Khana, where food is cooked and distributed amongst the poor and needy twice everyday.
Urs is celebrated from the Ist to the 9th of Rajab annually.
The Ajmer Lake, situated on the edge of desert and surrounded by hills on the three sides is separated from Ajmer by Nag Paharthe Snake mountain.
On Nag Paharthe Snake mountain the Panchkund and the cave of saint Agastya are located.
It is believed that Kalidasa the 4th century Sanskrit poet and play wright choose the setting for its masterpiece "Abhigyana Shakuntalam" in Nag Paharthe Snake’s forest heritage.