In Kumarakom the monsoon are early June to mid August, November to March considered the best months.
Kerla is known for its panoramic backwater stretches, lush green paddy fields, highlands and beaches,
The major backwater stretches is in Kottayam district, where a network of rivers and canals empty into the great expanse of water called the Vembanad Lake. 
Located at Kumarakom 16 km from Kottayam town, the Vembanad Lake, an enchanting picnic spot and fast developing backwater tourism destination, provide boating, fishing and sight seeing experiences that are truly exhilarating.
Kumarakom slumbers on the banks of the famous Vembanad Lake.
The  Vembanad Lake with its majestic canals, streams and distributaries along its banks weave an intricate and enchantingly beautiful web.
The gorgeous green of the fringed palms ripple in the blue waters and blend into wavelets.
Located on the banks of the  Vembanad Lake, the bird sanctuary is spread across 14 acres.
The Kumarakom Birds Sanctuary, an ornithologist’s paradise is a favorite haunt of migratory birds like the Siberian stork, egret, darter, heron and teal. 
The main attraction are local birds like the waterfowl, cuckoo, owl, egret, heron and the water duck, as well as the migratory Siberian cranes. Parrots, teal, larks, flycatchers, wood beetle, and other birds are seen here during their respective migratory seasons.
Houseboats and motorboats are available on hire for bird watching cruises on the lake.
The best time to birds watch is between June and August.
To watch migratory birds, November to February is the best time.
Pay a visit to the picturesque Aruvikkuzhi Waterfalls Located 18km from Kottayam town, 2km down a mud lane from Kumarakom is this beautiful picnic spot where streams tinkle as they make their way through the landscape and waters roar as they  cascade down the mountains from a height of100 ft.
Pathiramanal (sands of midnight), an enchanting island on the lake, can be accessed by boat from Kumarakom.
This 10 acre island on the backwaters is home to many rare varieties of migratory birds from different parts of the world.
According to mythology a young Brahmin dived into the Vembanad Lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for the land to rose from below.
The island can be accessed only by boat.
A cruise along the Vembanad Lake is the best way to experience the sanctuary.
Kottayam is an ancient town famous for its churches, especially the 700 years-old churches, the Cheria palli (`small church`) with exceptionally lovely paintings over the altar and the Valia palli (`big church`) perched on a picturesque hillock over a small cluster of houses.
In the St. Mary’s Church Kuravilangad built in 355 AD there is an old bell which bears a hitherto undeciphered inscription
The mortal remains of the blessed Alphonsa and the Blessed Father Chavara are entombed at the St. Mary’s Church at Bharananganam and the St. Joseph’s Monastery Church at Mannanam respectively.
Thousands gather at these holy shrines during festive occasions.
Pala town and Kanjirappally, nourished by the Meenachil and Manimala rivers respectively are centers of rubber plantations.
The Ettumanoor Shiva Temple 12 km north of town has exceptionally beautiful wall paintings and sculptures inside the temple.
In the heart of Kottayam town is the much venerated Thirunakkara Mahadeva temple.
50km from Kottayam, Aranmula is the site of the splendid Onam festival boat races, usually in early September.
These faces unlike the more sporting Nrhru Trophy race at Alappuzha in August are essentially religious, based on a temple festival.
Caparisoned slephants with beaded umbrellas, processions of decorated floats, and highly ornate boats make this a lovely event to witness.
Aranmula is also the centre of boll metal mirror crafts.
The most exciting feature of the festival however, are the snake boat races held at several places on the palm. 
Payippad Jelotsavam is held in memory of the Prathista ceremony of Haripad Subramanya temple and therefore has a religious significance.
Snake boat processions are taken out on the first two days and competitive boat race takes place on the third day. 
Ponadu Chootu Padayani is the annual festival at the ancient Bhagavathy Temple in Meenachil Taluk.
Bunches of dry palm fronds, (chootu) are lit and carried in procession around the temple before the performances.
Kumarakom in Kerla, South India is just a few miles from the nearest city, Kottayam.
Kottayam links you to all major cities in Kerals and India with numerous trains plying this route daily.
Being set in the high ranges of the Western Ghats in Kerala, Periyar is spread in a tropical forest area, a mixture of deciduous, semi-evergreen and characterized by tall trees, and a closed canopy. 
The Periyar National Park and Tiger Reserve have a picturesque lake in the heart of the sanctuary.
Formed with the building of a dam in 1895, this reservoir meanders around the contours of the wooded hills, providing a perennial source of water for the local wildlife.
You may even get a glimpse of the tiger during this season.
A summer palace of the former Maharaja of Travancore, set along the lake, is a hotel and a fine place to stay.
Spice garden and plantation estates surround the national park.
On your tour to Periyar you can see the rich bird life including the Giant Hornbill, Cormorant, Darter, Osprey, and Racket-tailed Drongo.
The Indian python and king cobra are among the reptilian fauna.
Periyar has a few Nilgiri Tahr, good numbers of which may also be seen on a day excursion to nearby Eravikulam National Park near Munnar.
The main attractions on Periyar Travel include Kumily, a plantation town closely associated with Thekkady.
Kumily is situated on the outskirts of the Periyar Sanctuary.
It is an important shopping center and spice trade center. The main bus station and most of the medium range accommodation in the Periyar region is in Kumily.
Another important place of visit is Murikkady which is a panorama of cardamom, coffee and pepper plantations.
Pandikuzhi is one of the popular picnic spot of Periyar, situated between Chellarkovil and the Tamil Nadu State border.
The best season of visit Periyar wildlife sanctuary is from the monthes of October and June. 
Situated just 4-kms from Periyar, Kumily is a growing town where tourism is fastly catching up just like the spice trade,  the major occupation  of this small town.
The town is also well equipped with the excellent hotels and resorts for accommodation.
Periyar and Kumily are the most convenient points from which visitors can easily explore Kerala’s beautiful Cardamom hills.
Guide will approach you at offers of trips via jeep or taxi to the hills and if you can get a group together, these trips work out as a good travel value.
Boat cruises make the best option to cheek out the wilds of Periyar Sanctuary.
Today the Periyar lake presents an excellent boating spot for tourism.
Although it is unusual to see many animals from the boats, still you spot a family of Elephants, Wild Boar, and Sambar Deer by the water’s edge.
The upper deck is best for wild life viewing when taking a boat cruise, but better turn up half an hour early to get the best seat.
The best way to explore  Periyar is by boat, you also have the option of spending time atop watchtowers.
Trekking is an option open only to the serious naturalist.
A walk into the forest with them is an experience into itself, as you come to learn about their customs, ethnicity and legends.
Situated in the hills of the Western Ghats, the  Periyar region is a forest rich area inhabited by a large population of mammals. 
Periyar National Park in Kerala covers an area of about 5,500-hectares of land.
The main attraction of  Periyar National Park  is the Periyar Lake, formed by the construction of a dam on the Periyar River in 1895. 
While on wildlife tour to the Periyar National Park one can easily spot large herds of Indian Elephant and the Nilgiri Langur.
The forest area is a tropical region, a mixture of deciduous, semi-evergreen and evergreen `shoals`.
Over 200 varieties of birds and 100 types of butterflies can be seen in  Periyar National Park
The rich bird life at the  Periyar National Park includes the Giant hornbill, Cormorant, Darter, Osprey and Racket-tailed Drongo.
Other animals can be seen in  Periyar National Park are Gour, Wilds pigs, Samber, Barking Deer, Mouse Deer, Dole or Indian Wild Dog snd very rarely, a Tiger.
Forest rest houses-Periyar House, Aranya Niwas, etc.- situated in the park’s tourist complex area offer good accommodation facilities.
The Lake Palace at Eddapaliyam, which was once the royal residence of the Maharaja of Travancore, and Spice Village are the two other better options for accommodation in the area.
Apart from these, there are many other rest houses where accommodation is available to suit every budget.
the  park has 35 species including the Wild Elephant, Tiger, Panther, Wild Dog, Gour, Samber, Giant Squirrel, Lion-Tailed Macaque, Civet, Leopard, Nilgiri Tahr and Nilgiri Langur etc.
At the periyar Sanctuary you can find reptiles like King cobra, Viper, Krait, a number of non-pisonous Snakes, biocoloured frogs, Tortoise and Crocodiles.
In Avifauna you can find 265 species including the great Indian Hornbill, Peafowl, Brahminy kite and black-Winged Kite.
Kumily, the nearest town from   Periyar National Park is well served by both state and private buses from Kottayam, Ernakulam and Madurai in Tamil Nadu.
If you wish to travel by air the nearest airport from   Periyar are at Kochi (Kochin) or Madurai in Tamil Nadu.
God’a own country with its psychedelic sunsets complete with palm trees swaying to whatever music the wind  chooses to play, the wafting aromas of the land of coffee, spices and coconuts, the bastion of communism, a literate people whose friendliness is only surprised  by their curiosity for more.
A place that fiercely retains and respects the ancient traditions white viewing the modern with tolerance and invitation- Thiruvananthapuram ou Trivandrum is Kerala incarnate.
There is beauty and intelligence, the exotic and the mundane; there are Ayurvedic massages that elicit equal amounts of pain and pleasure, beaches and lagoons with the best part being the preservation of it all way Nature meant it to be.
Trivandrum is also a bustling city, where the business of life is carried out like it is around the world, interspersed with everyday visit to the nearby temple or mosque.
Myth has it that the place derives its name from it being the city of Anantha, the sacred serpent of Vishnu.
History has it that  Thiruvananthapuram had once been the part of call Romans and Jews, Arabs and Christians.
Believable, considering that Thiruvananthapuram remains one of the biggest centres for sea-bound harbour.
Pleasantly tropical throughout the year, Trivandrum’s proximity to the sea makes for weather that has its variations.
Other than the monsoon between May and October, which are long and heavy, summer temperature goes up to 32°C while winters are a pleasant 29°C.
Best time to visit  Thiruvananthapuram are, if you love the rains, anytime and if you don’t September to May.
Government Art Museum has much to impress the visitors with built in an exquisite blend of Kerala, Mugal, Chinese and Italian style of architecture, the museum is also known as the Napier Museum after the erstwhile Governor General of Madras John Napier.
This 19th century building  boasts of a unique natural air-conditioning system and the displays include exquisite bronzes, ancient ornament and costumes, ivory carvings and musical instruments, and a whole temple chariot.
Puttan Malika Palace Museum is built by Maharaja Swathi Thirunal Balrama Verma of  Travancore, an accomplished poet and musician, the traditional Travancore style musician is made better with its exquisite woodcarvings.
There is a priceless art collection among other exhibits and the palace also hosts an annual classical music festival between 27th Januaru   and 3rd February. 
Located in the museum compound is this Sree Chitra Art Gallery featuring an eclectic collection of works by Roerich and Raja Ravi Verma.
Sree Chitra Art Gallery is of course the only among the many other paintings from the Mughal, Rajput, Bengal and Tanjore schools of art.
In Sree Chitra Art Gallery there is also a fabulous collection of oriental art from the far East and Bali. 
The zoological Garden with a setting that includes woodlands and beautiful lakes; this is arguably one of Asia’s best laid- out zoos.
Whether it is love for the animals or just s need for a good day out, Zoological Gardens is an excellent place to visit.
A must see is the Indian School of Martial Arts (ISMA), which continues to preserve and impart training in the 5,000-year-old martial art of Kerala-Kalarippayattu.
Established in 1983 Indian School of Martial Arts is in Vazhuthacaud in the heart of the city.