Shanker, is perhaps the best place to eat in Agartala, especially in Bengali fare with a Tripuri twist. 
It would be criminal to return without trying Kala paturi, a fish delicacy prepared by mustard and wrapping it in banana leaves before it is steamed.
To add adventure to your meal, you can try the tortoise meat on offer.
For meat of the sweet variety head to Matri Bhandar, Melaghar outlet, something of an institution with locals. 
Specialize in milk desserts-try Chanar Payesh, Langcha and the Bengali Sandesh.
If you rice lover, Bangui Rice one is a must try.
Bangui is a typical tribal preparation, where rice is wrapped inside Bangui leaves and boiled, this is somewhat bland dish but the flavour that the rice derives from the leaves is quite unique.
In Tripura, villages host travelers, and that’s the best experience.
While here you must try the dry fish chutney, and rice beer that you get in small stalls in the interior of Tripura.
Also try Chakhni, which is sticky rice with bamboo shoots and pork-it is delicious.
If your soul truly into shopping then the best option for you is to try and visit some tribal villages where not only can you pick up table mats, lamp shades, fruit baskets and trays made of fine cane and bamboo, you can also watch local men as the go about turning strips of raw material into beautiful products that will light up your home.
Lining Akhaura Road located in the centre of Agartala are rows of shops where, if you browse leisurely and patiently, you will get some great locally made handicrafts. 
Pick up a side table or an intricately carved wooden screen; or roll up a colourful silk table mat or two.
If your time is limited but your wallet is not, walk into Purbasha outlet of Agartala, Tripura handicrafts and handlooms Development Corporation, where you will find a wide variety of locally made bamboo, cane and wood products, apart from rich silks.
With the culture steeped in the grandeur of its Raj Days and a fiercely loyal people, West Bengal is a destination unlike any other.
If you’re looking to just get away from it all, visit Darjeeling with the snow-clad Khangchendzonga in the background.
Head to laid-back Kalimpong, known for its exotic orchids, or revel in the quite of beaches like Digha and Shankarpur and the pristine white sands of Frazerganj and Bakkhali. 
The nature-lover will find West Bengal immensely satisfying. 
Made up of 54 tiny islands, the Sundrbans comprise the largest mangrove forest in the world, and are home to the endangered one-horned rhino. 
The Dooars valley itself, which forms a gateway to the hill stations of the east, is filled with str4etches of virgin forests and undulating tea gardens. 
For the real jolt of excitement, visit Kolkata during Durga Puja and prepare to be blown away by the sheer exuberance of the festivities. 
The City of Joy itself has so much to see and experience; it is a world unto itself, a buzzing metropolis full of energy and life.
Tagore’s Shantiniketan or ‘Abode of Peace’ remains ensconced in art and culture, and is wonderful dance performances and music.  
This is a land where intellectual pursuit is as important as beloved tradition, where food is as celebrated as are festival. You will leave with a sweet taste in your mouth.
ITC Sonar Bangla, offering the ultimate respite from Kokata’s gritty realities, the Sonar Bangla is an uber-luxurious hotel that still manages to reflect the city’s past grandeur.
It simply doesn’t get any better than at the ITC one rooms, which look out on the best views the hotel has to offer. The typical Peshawari food and Dum Pukht dishes cooked the centuries-old traditional way in sealed deghs will make your visit that much more memorable.
Siliguri is the largest town in North Bengal, surrounding by lush tea gardens, and Sinclairs is perhaps its finest hotel.
Palm fronds against its giant ochre columns look marvelous; from between these columns peep out the windows of the large, well-appointed rooms. Straightforward comfort.
You don’t stay at the Oberoi Grand because of the Oberoi tag; you check in because she is the Grand Dame of hospitality and has presided over Cowringhee for over 125 years now.  
Oberoi Grand Hotel is a landmark in the city, and one of the best in India. Snuggle up in the exquisite four-poster beds in the suites, look out into the palm-fringed courtyards and revel in unmatched regal glory. 
Cochrane Palace is beautiful restored British colonial bungalow once belonged to and erudite magistrate, and today is a boutique hotel with the best view in Kurseong. 
Cochrane sits at the foothills of the Himalayas, and on a clear day, your window will offer you a freeze-frame of the snowy Kanchenjunga peaks. 
Walk out to the terraces and you’re faced with stretches of impossibly fragrant tea gardens.
Antique furniture graces the wood-panelled lobby and each individually designed room. 
The inhouse restaurant has 40 different varieties of tea and cuisine ranging from Anglo-Indian to Nepalese and Tibetan. 
Famed for the impressive cuisine at its restaurants, the Taj Bengal is very popular with business travelers and sumptuous elegance. 
The rooms are all dark teak-floored with soft rugs underfoot and tasteful art on the walls. 
Fairlawn Hotel, Kolkata is more than old, it’s ancient. 
The Fairlawn has stood at the junction of Sudder Street and Madge Lane since 1783.
Fairlawn heritage hotel was constructed by William Ford and its guest list includes big names like Gunter Grass, Patrick Swayze, Tom Stoppard and Julie Christie, to name a few.
The endless celebrity photograph covering its walls will convince you. 
Simple and cosy rooms add to its welcoming, homely atmosphere. 
Kolkata is still dominated by The Oberoi Grand.
These days I and my husband prefer staying at The Bengal Club.
The Bengal Club is central, old fashioned and serves authentic and delicious Bengali cuisine. 
One of the Kolkat’s most atmospheric establishedments. Peter Cat may not have the glamour of other restaurant s in this area, but it oozes a charm of its very own.
From the time it opened back in the swinging sixties, this dimly lit cocktail bar/restaurant cooks up commendable India fare, served by courteous waiters decked out in smart cummerbunds and bow ties.
Must-haves include the Chelo Kebab platter and the sizzlers.
Bhajahari Manna, with a name derived from a character in a famous Manna De song. This chain of restaurant and take away outlets has redefined Bengali cuisine by doing wonderful things with fish. 
Try the Aar Dakbangla (fish in spicy gravy), the ever popular Bhaapa Chingri (prawns steamed with coconut paste) and the ilish paturi (hilsa wrapped in banana leaves and steamed with mustard). 
If you have a colonial hangover and love your toast with scrambled eggs and crispy strips of bacon, drop into Kolkata’s famous Flurry’s. 
It has the best English breakfast in town and is a great place to sip your tea and nibble on meringues    with cream. 
It has been recently renovated, but old staff and the furniture was sent across the street to T3, a no-frills restaurant that continues to serve the old Flurry’s fare and breakfast.
The sorbets, ham sandwiches, chicken, and cheese omelets and fried eggs with bacon are Yummy.
True Kolkata are known to prefer T3 to the revamped Flurry’s.
When in Kolkata, cakes and pastries are probably not the first things that come to mind. 
When you visit this time, head straight to Nahoum’s (oh all right, after you’ve had your fill of Bengali sweet), the oldest Jewish bakery in town.
You’ll find a great assortment of goodies in Nahoum’s.
They have delicious cheese samosas, brownies, honey and plum cakes (sell-outs at Christmas), gooseberry jams and the best garlic bread in town. 
Once the favoured watering hole of Bengal’s intelligentsia, the Coffee House has seen the likes of Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, and even Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee.
Factor in a waiting time of at least half an hour (spend your time browsing at the excellent second-hand book stalls outside).
Once you grab a chair, make sure you don’t get up before you’ve sampled the kabiraji cutlets and the Mughlai paratha, washed down with cold coffee.
There’s not even a hint of frills.
After all, this is not just a coffee houses; it is and ‘adda’ for intellectual stimulation.
I am crazy about Thai, Mughlai and Bengali food.
Some of my favorites in Kolkata are prawn green curry at Ban Thai (at The Oberaoi Grand), dal makhani and sikandari raan at Peshawari (ITC Sonar Bangla) and bhaapa chingri at O Calcutta (Forum, Elgin Road). 
Ask anyone   with a sweet tooth what he likes most in Kolkata and he’ll invariable say-rosogolla spoony balls of cottage cheese dipped in sugar syrup.
Buy the best Rosogolla from KC Das, which has chains throughout the state.  
It may look like a Laddoo, but any Bengali will insist that it’s Mihidana. 
A favourite dessert in many households, Mihidana is made of Besan passed through a sieve into boiling oil where it is fried before being dipped in sugar syrup. 
The sweet shops in burdwan district are known for their Mihidana. 
Shorpruria is a little like sandesh (coming up) but not quite as soft, while Shorbhaja is made of layers of compacted cream dipped in sugar syrup, and is very, very sweet.
Delicious if you have a row of sweet teeth.
No Bengali worth his sandesh will let a day pass without this sweet. 
Sandesh is made of cottage cheese with either jaggery or sugar-some come with a drop of liquid jaggery as a filling.
Try Nakur Chandra Nandi near Girish Park Metro station in Kokata. 
Put simply, this is sweet yoghurt, but here, Misti Doi is an art. 
The yoghurt is usually set in earthen pots for the special flavour that Bengalis love. 
Bhim Nag in Kokata’s Bow Bazaar makes    excellent Misti Doi. 
A Bengali version of the Gulab Jamun (but sweeter and with a burst of cardamom in the middle), Ledikeni is named after Lady Cannig, who is said to have loved the sweet.
Cham-Cham comes in many varieties, but the soft and squishy sponge laced with sweet syrup, is always irresistible. 
In Kokata, try Banchharam near Gariahat and Mouchak in Golpark for the best.
Regulars will have you believe that anything of consequence coming out of Kokata was actually brainstormed over cups of coffee or Chai overhung by rings of smoke at the Coffee House. 
Kolata has its very own version of China Town, where you’ll find all the Chinese food you love and relish.
In the mornings, between 7 and 9, there are delicious dim sums served with green tea, even beer, by vendors in the streets. 
The best restaurant for biryani in Kolkata, with extremely courteous staff, Aliah is a traditional establishment that has small cabin for families and couples with wooden partitions and curtains.
Apart from the Biryani, try their mutton Rezala, chicken stew and heavenly Haleem (during Ramazan). The white chutney with the kababs is to die for. 
A dingy, dirty lane in Central Kolkata, which is lined with nothing but food stalls, Dacres Lane is a mélange of smells and tastes. 
From hot Jalebis, samosas, batter fish fry (invariably called ‘butter fish fry’), mutton cutlets, rolls, fish kabiraji (fish fillets fried with a costing of egg) as well as Bengali thalis, you won’t know when to stop eating. 
While most places do not even have chairs to offer, some, like Chittoda’s Hotel, will have a row of chairs and tablets crammed into a space the size of a phone booth. 
But a mouthful is enough to make you forget all the discomfort. The experience of real Kolkata, this.  
A Bengali groom invariably wears a shoal crown on his wedding day. Goddess Durga wears it too and not only that-every Bengali household has a shoal curio of some sort.
The products are made of a kind of paper-thin thermocol and are easily breakable. 
You’ll find them all over the state, but Murshidabad is the most famous centre for shola craft. 
It may have originated thousands of miles away in Java, but today, batik is a common art form in Bengal, available all over the state.
Batik was revived in Santiniketan- Tagore is the one credited with popularizing it. 
Bakik art of wax-designing is now printed on silk and cotton kurtas, saris, wall hangings, you name it. 
Amar Kutir, 25 km from Santiniketan, is great for batik work. 
If you’re in Krishnanagar, you must visit the artist’s colony in Ghurni. Here you’ll find youself surrounded by amazing creations in clay-from life size sculptures to replicas of various fruits, spices and animals. They look quite bizarrely real.
Try the studio of renowned clay artists Kartik Pal and Gautam Pal in Krishnanagar, 120 km from Kokata.