The Marwari has a beautiful head crowned by perky lure shaped ears meeting at the tips.
Nainital is situated in the Kumaon hills where thick wooded hills, snow capped mountains in the distance and clear pine scented air were a respite from the hot steamy plains.
It was Nainital where Col James Edward Corbett was born.
Col James Edward Corbett’s love for the richness of the region and sensitivity to the miseries of the simple hill folk, were to shape his life as a courageous hunter of the man eating tigers & leopards that plagued the villagers.
Later on Col James Edward Corbett became a visionary conservationist and author.
Corbett National Park is rightfully named after the man who was instrumental in its creation.
With Jeeps and Elephants as modes of transport, one gets an excellent opportunity to examine survey and enjoy the diverse flora and fauna of the Park.
The Forest Lodge and Tiger Camp provide sumptuous meals, clean comfortable bed and bath and an ambience that matches the wilderness.
The first phase of the ride is easy, through thick peripheral reserve forests of Sal.
Canter or gallop on the soft tracks and the opportunity to stop and examine whatever catches your fancy, is always in the forest of Sal.
Camping sites provide all the magic of the Jungle, the nocturnal sounds, bright lit skies and tales around a crackling camp fire, all make a heady cocktail.
Trekking provides the thrilling adventure of an uphill climb on narrow bridle paths, breathtaking views across growing hills, valleys and gorges and the changing vegetation at every turn.
The Lodge at Pangot provides great comfort after a good days riding.
The descent into Betalghat is equally dramatic.
The Shimla ice skating rink has the largest open-air area with naturally frozen ice in this part of the world.
The Ice Skating Club in Shimla has already celebrated its Diamond Jubilee.
Ice skating in Shimla, normally begins in early December and carries on to February.
Clear skies and low temperatures provide series of uninterrupted sessions.
Fancy dress carnivals, 'gymkhanas' ice hockey and dances enliven every season in Shimla.
If you're fired by the spirit of adventure, let the sparks in your heart fly in India, a land blessed with lofty snow clad, peaks, crystal glaciers, rolling meadows, jagged rock faces, verdant valleys, meandering rivers, cascading waterfalls, dense forests, and hospitable people, blessed with a rich culture a land perfect for mountaineering, trekking, and rock climbing.
The icy heights of the Himalayas are the source of some of India's mighty rivers.
The Himalayas offer you some of the toughest and most exciting river runs in the world.
River sports in the rapids are the most popular, throughout the summers and can really get your adrenaline pumping.
The innumerable fresh water streams and lakes in Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are ideal for angling and trout fishing.
The coastal regions provide excellent opportunities for water sports like water skiing, wind surfing, yatching, snorkeling and scuba diving.
The Aravali hills have good climbing faces at Dumdama, Dhauj and Nuh, all situated near Delhi.
The Western Ghats have Mumbra and Dudha beyond Pune.
Himachal Pradesh offers the Manali Valley, Manikaran and the Rohtang Pass.
Rajasthan has Mount Abu and Sariska which have gentler rocks.
In Karnataka there are the Chamundi Hills for those fascinated by the unexplored, the mountain ranges of India offer breathtaking, enthralling trekking routes.
In the vast amphitheatre of the Indian Himalayas and Karakorams, there are limitless possibilities for trekking, mountaineering, skiing, and river rafting.
Within this alluring arena, the Garhwal and Kumaon regions, occupy the central place, with special points of interest for the trekker. 
Camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to Himachal and sharing the warmth of its people.
With their vast open spaces, above the snowline, the Garhwal and Kumaon hills of Uttaranchal, offer a plethora of ski locales.
India is considered the cradle of modern polo.
It is India where Polo the game of kings was rediscovered and nurtured since the medieval times.
Babar, the founder of the Mughal dynasty in the 15th century, firmly established its popularity.
India is a major venue on the international rally circuit, with quite a few rallies now established as annual events, attracting not only national level participation but also from the international level .
Though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports, hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as Pune, Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Mumbai, Devlali, Bangalore and Kalaheti. 
A thrill a minute adventure sport where split second decisions can literally make or mar heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent.
Camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between India and China, when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels.
Camel safaris provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional Indian life in the desert, with all the hardships, the beauty and the desolation.
The Jeep Safari not only refreshes and revitalizes but one feels close to nature while driving through the quiet and beautiful countryside.
Let your senses sway to the romance of the surroundings as you pass forts, palaces, historical landmarks and villages.
Motorbike safari in India is another exciting adventure to experience!!! You can hire a motorbike from any Tour Operators & Travel Agents & explore the various faces of India.
The Horse Marwari the desert horse of Rajasthan.
Young horses are bought and reared in the hills.
Horse dexterity in negotiating the narrow bridle paths in the hills every man oeuvre so safe and simple, has to be experienced to be believed.
The average daily move is about 150 kms consisting of approximately five to six hours of jeep driving.
Spend lazy evenings in bed or swing to the folk dances.
Jeep safaris are organized in every part of Rajasthan, but safaris organized to the Bishnoi village near Jodhpur have a special attraction for tourists.
Motorcycle and Bicycle safaris can also be done in every part of Rajasthan.
For those who want to turn cycling into a keenly contested game, In Rajasthan there is Cycle Polo too.
Elephant Safaris are exciting for those in search of an experience of a lifetime.
Some tour operators organize elephant safaris between Jaipur and Pushkar.
An exciting sport is Elephant Polo which provides a spectacle for the audience and enjoyment to the participants.
The bulky animals move around with surprising speed and poise.
The Jaipur Vintage Car Rally held annually in the month of January has become a big draw for car lovers, sports lovers, vintage beauty lovers and tourists alike.
A keenly contested event, this rally is an inimitable display of well maintained cars of yesteryears.
Among the vintage models which had come in from different cities of India to take part in the 1997 Vintage Car Rally, one could spot the 1903 Humber, 1919 Fiat 501 . 1923 Rover, 1936 Mercedes Benz 170V, 1938 Moms 8, 1923 Austin and the 1926 Erskine.
The Kalindikhal trek promises to be a rare experience, even for the most seasoned trekkers.
Kalindikhal trek starts at Nandanvan, and ends at Badrinath.
Kalindikhal trek is a gradual ascent of 10 kms there after, the trek negotiates Kharapathar (8 kms) at a height of 5456 m, before camping at Kalindi base (5590 m), a further 6 kms down.
Spend some time viewing the Himalayan peaks, Yamuna river, and the Mussoorie valley.
Spend some time feasting your eyes on the Shivalik ranges, Doon valley, Dakpather and Asan Barrage.
The terrain that India provides from the deserts to the beaches, to the mountains tests not only the skills of the realists but also their mettle.
One of the more well known rallies, till about a few years back, was the Himalayan car rally, which has since been discontinued.
Of recent origin are the vintage car rallies in which some very rare, collector cars are not only displayed but also run in the rally.
If you're lucky, you might just spot a 1935 Jaguar convertible’ or even an 1898 Humbrette.
With a terrain that shifts from hill roads to forest tracks, desert trails to beach routes, India tests the mettle of both man and machine in motor rallies.
Several championship rallies are held in India every year.
Picturesque vintage car rallies are also held in some of the metros like Kolkata's Annual Statesman Vintage Car Rally.
One of the most challenging Motor rallies is the Himalayan Car rally.
Common & most popular Motorbike Safari Circuits are in North Combining, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradeshin South Combining, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, & Karnataka.
This is normally in the Himalayan Range of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal & in the Eastern Himalayas.
Motor racing activities first started in the post independence period as many of the World War II airstrips in different parts of the country were left deserted and enthusiasts took advantage of this to pursue this sport.
In time, the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI) became the governing body of this sport.
Rallying the mission to test man & machine against Indian terrain also rose to become a popular sport.
National Championships were instituted and winners became cult figures.
Rallies were shortened to 750 kilometers as long as they were part of the National championship and that made competition very tight.
Team MRF, Team JK, Team JCT and Team Paarel are the only four teams in India today.
Car and bike enthusiasts yearning for more adventure started setting off to cross country expeditions.
Presently, motor sport includes activities like autocross, motocross, drag racing, motor gymkhana, treasure hunts and precise family rallies.
Indian Narain Kartikeyan has already made a name for himself in the high speed world of motor racing.
Indian Motor racing is roughly 50 years old and rallying 30 years.
Though motor sport started with circuit racing in India, the fact today remains that racing has hardly progressed within the country.
If you're fired by the spirit of adventure, let the sparks in your heart fly in India, a land blessed with lofty snow clad peaks, crystal glaciers, rolling meadows, jagged rock faces, verdant valleys, meandering rivers, cascading waterfalls, dense forests, and hospitable people, blessed with a rich culture a land perfect for mountaineering, trekking, and rock climbing.
While the mountaineering season tends to be concentrated around the April-November period, a number of climbs are also attempted in winter (December-March) which, though much colder, allows for clearer climbing days.
Mountaineering routes are graded, according to the degree of difficulty and accessibility.
The permanent snowline, generally being in the region of 5,200 m, the degree of difficulty of mountaineering routes, can broadly be defined as requiring knowledge of basic mountaineering techniques.
The main mountaineering locales are in the Garhwal and Kumaon regions of Uttar Pradesh.
In Garhwal, the areas include the Tons Banderpunch region, the Gangotri glacier system, the Nanda Devi sanctuary (presently closed), Arwa glacier area, Kamet and Abi Gamin.
In Kumaon, the areas include the Kalabaland glacier system, the Panch Chulhi, Rajrambha, and Chaudhara peaks, and the peaks of the Nandakot basin, on the eastern flank of the Nanda Devi sanctuary.
The Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam has a full fledged mountaineering and trekking division, based at MunikiReti, Rishikesh for information about Peak booking fees, Inner Line restrictions, import of equipment, camera permits, insurance, medical attention, and evacuation procedures, contact the Indian Mountaineering Foundation based at Delhi.
All expeditions, whether Indian, foreign, or joint, are required to apply to the IMF, at least six months prior to departure, so that all the formalities are completed within the time frame.
One of the legacies left behind by the British much like cricket and hockey is Polo.
Polo owes its origin to the British, even though it was first played in India.
An erstwhile passion of the royal families some, like the former ruler of Udaipur, still patronize it the game is now largely a preserve of the men in uniform, played in meters and cantonment lawns.
Matches are usually organized in the winter season, details of which can be obtained from local dailies or race courses.
Babar, the founder of the Mughal dynasty in the 15th century, firmly established the popularity of Polo.