India Travel Destinations provides the visitor with a unique opportunity to layback and relish the true Tropical heat in a lush green Rain Resort in Lakkidi, which is another prominent Hill Station in India. 
A Tour to Lakkidi would enable a traveler to earmark the stereotypical characteristics which, mythical Kerala is known for i.e. sleepy backwaters, rain fed Tropical Forests and the tranquil murmurings of rain dripping woods.
As a popular Hill Station in India, Lakkidi also boasts of the second highest degree of rainfall in the whole wide World. 
A Tour to the rain soaked silhouettes of Lakkidi would enable the Tourists to decipher the same magic. 
Irulas and Mudugars are the main tribes inhabiting the Waynad region which houses the rain soaked Lakkidi as a famous Hill Station in India. 
The Waynad region is home to Malleswari Peak, which is home to an India renowned Shiva Lingam.
India Travel Destinations arranges Tours to Lakkidi, which is also recognized for its cultural vitality and verve.
 Kunjan Nambiar is a poet dramatist of great name and fame in Kerala who expertised in the art form of Thallu, which literally means " to jump" or" cut a caper".
History Lessons teach us that Kunjan Nambiar, the popular Poet from Lakkidi, the Hill Station in India followed the tenets of Natya Shastra, a Treatise on Dance compiled in 2nd century B.C. 
Kunjan Nambiar used to perform in the Chakkiaars, groups of Drummers, and he fused his style, Thallu with images and themes from Mahabharata and Ramayana in a way unique to Keralese Art forms.
The peculiar note of his fusion art form is to take up cudgels against the social injustices and discrimination prevailing in the society. 
These are some of the wares which India Travel Destinations has to offer to the interested parties.
India Travel Destinations provides a window of opportunity through which tourists and interested travelers can go ahead and explore the natural beauty of Manali, the prominent Hill Station in India. 
Tours to Manali in Himachal Pradesh opens up new vistas of nature seeking before us with all its resplendent glory. 
Manali is a charming and ebullient Hill Station in India capping the hills in Himalayas in Himachal Pradesh.
Vaivastava, the seventh incarnation of Manu found a floating fish in his bathing water, which he nurtured till it, grew into a mammoth fish big enough for sea.
 Then, the story goes that the saint and Manu went on making a big vessel as the fish warned them of a gigantic deluge, which was soon to take over mankind. 
The place where this all saving and securing vessel was built is known to all of us as, "Manali.”Currently, it is this life saving height of the mythical age of Saints, Asuaras and Gods, which provides succor and relief to the people in search of calm and quietitude amidst nature's solitude.
Hadimda Devi and Manu Temple are some of the chief centers of worship in Manali which are known all over in the eyes of the connoisseurs both for its architectural beauty and religious significance. 
Funtsok Coffee house, Little Tibet and Tibet Kitchen in this Hill Station in India, are some of the places of Tibetan origin and significance, which need to be visited to have a feel of Tibet without visiting the real place.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, organize tours to Shimla, another gem of a Hill Station in India, to unearth its magnificence in the form of locales of the order of, Club House, Vasisth Baths and the glacier closest to Manali, Solang valley. 
It has attained lorish and legendary proportions both for tourists who have visited the glacier and the prospective ones who are yet to live the experience of this locale rich in grassy slopes and numerous picnic spots.
Rohtang pass, also in the near vicinity of this beautiful Hill Station in India, which a guided tour to Shimla would reveal, is posited at a height of 3980 meters above sea level. 
It is a major attraction and congregation point for all seasoned trekkers and people out for longer jaunts in Shimla, another of those ethereal Hill Stations in India, Himachal Pradesh.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details of online reservation for tours to historical monuments in Mandu in Madhya Pradesh, India.
During your tours to the historical monuments in the Mandu region of Madhya Pradesh, India you can visit the Jahaz Mahal, the Hindola Mahal, Ashrafi Mahal and Hoshang Shah's tomb.
This lovely and unique piece of architecture was constructed on a narrow strip of land located in between two water tanks. 
The rooftop terrace of this ancient monument is decorated with domed pavilions.
The Hindola Mahal is another historic site that you must visit during your tours to historical monuments in Mandu, India. 
 The palace has sloping walls that give the impression as though they are swaying in the wind,  huge and heavy stone arches support the ceiling inside the fort.
During your tours to historical monuments in Mandu, India you can also visit the Champa Baodi that has a huge complex that has a complicated water system.
Hoshang Shah's tomb is located in Mandu, India. 
This tomb was constructed with white marble and the tomb is located on a low plinth and has a dome with four artistic cupolas.
The Ashrafi Mahal is another interesting historic site that was a theological college. 
Thus you can come and be a part of the ancient grandeur of Mandu in Madhya Pradesh, India.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, opens up new vistas in the sphere of adventure tourism in India through its latest addition in the form of motorcycle safari in India. 
A motorcycle is speed and precision personified, with the possessor of the machine turning into a speed hawk, seconds after he or she spurts on the engine. 
It is an experience alien to the sense of safety and stability enjoyed by four-wheel drivers and participants of jeep safaris.
Motorcycle safari in India not only enlists the speeding part of the machine but also the patience and balancing part of this facet of adventure tourism in India. 
Such can be the charm of motorcycle safari in India and for that matter in any other part of the world which enjoys a pride of place in the pantheon of adventure tourism in India.
India Travel Destinations includes the tracks of motorcycle safari in India like Ladakh, Leh and foothills of Himalayas. 
It has to be accepted that a participant to motorcycle safari has to be very well prepared for the conditions and climate while undertaking this part of adventure tourism in India. 
Then, sunglasses and the attendant sun screening equipment is a necessity if the weather during motorcycle safari in India gets a bit warm.
A rajasthani safari peculiarly begins at Delhi with the delivery of mobikes to the daring travelers marking nemharana as the starting point of this motor cycle safari in India as part of this unique aspect of adventure tourism in India. 
This motorcycle safari travels through Bikaner, the fortified town of Jaisalmer, culminating in Agra. 
Another motorcycle safari in India, which also includes Shangri la in its tour itinerary, is yet another part of the adventure tourism exercise in India. 
Such motorcycle safaris are not only famous for their reaching of destinations within a stipulated time limit but also for the vast array of people, cultures, fairs and festivals which the mobike riders can get to know while astride their culture machines.
Hill Stations in India tend to be all underrated as places of visit and travel in the want of proper marketing and advertisement stratagems.
Munnar being one of them needs to be rediscovered by nature lovers and seekers of freshest of natural flavors.
Hill Stations in South India being known for their sleepy image and low profile need to be refurbished. 
Munnar has a lot of significance in its nomenclature and its glorious historical backdrop too, makes it no lightweight.
Munnnar as a lesser-known Hill Station in India was the Summer Capital of British Raj in South India with numerous proud precedents attached to its history and origin. 
The name itself means a lot with the reference being made to the confluence of three South Indian rivers, making it a unique Hill Station in India and also in the South.
 The three rivers being Kundala, Nallathali and Mudrapuza that adds to the beauty of the place to be discovered.
The Coffee and Cardamom plantations abound in large numbers in this Hill Station in India and coupled with its expansive grassy lands it qualifies as a perfect picture postcard beauty only that it deserves a lot more attention on the national and international scene as a Destination. 
It is already a popular honeymoon destination for the moon gazing newly weds.
It remains for the others a place to be to discover making a tour to Munnar a must.
Mussoorie has rightly earned for itself the epithet of, Queen of Hill Stations as it oozes with the true resplendence of nature that any other place would die to be called as, among the rest of the Hill Stations in India. 
Cascading waterfalls, the woods in the neighborhood and grassy slopes, all add up to the beauty of Mussoorie as a must visit Hill Station in India.
Places of the order of, Kempty falls, Lal Tibba coupled with the activities of the genre of Dehradun-Mussoorie Trekking and Gun Hill Trekking which is the second most highest place of this Hill Station in India, add up to the beauty of Mussoorie.
This picturesque waterfall adds to the beauty of Mussoorie as the Queen of Hill Stations in India. 
This breathtakingly beautiful waterfall is the prime attraction of this Hill Station in India and it leads to an increment in the beauty of Mussoorie in its pristine form.
The waterfall involves the fall of water from a height of 4,500 feet leading up to the diversion of the flow into five different water streams accompanied by the sounds of hollering and shouting tourists in a rain dance.
The Mall or the shopping center, which includes a row of bargain and negotiable price shops, is geared up throughout the year for the customers.
India Travel Destinations makes the place and its small and cheap shopping opportunity available to you by arranging for a trip to this unique Hill Station in India.
The products on offer in such a visit brokered by India Travel destinations are of a varied array. 
They include ceramic ware, Tibetan revolving wheels or the Thangkas, carved walking sticks and the Ladhaki shawls.
 The novel shopping experience takes Mussorie into a totally different class in comparison with other Hill Stations in India and adds to the beauty of Mussoorie.
India Travel Destinations happens to pave the way for a willing and interested nature seeker to embark on a journey to have a fruitful and meaningful sojourn with Nainital, another exotic abode of peace nestled in the Himalayas. 
Nainital, as a Hill Station in India enjoys a pride of place among other Hill Stations in India courtesy its Natural charm and elegance. 
The exposure is furthered by the arrangements of India Travel Destinations, the tour guide with its tours to Nainital. 
India Travel Destinations reserves tours to Nainital, which basks in the glory of its natural resplendence and grace. 
Nainital is known to the frequenters of this Hill Station in India as the district of lakes.
Nainital, which is a famous retreat for Delhi's denizens, is popular among the trekkers and travelers for its cluster of great lakes, too- Naini Lake, Bhimtal Lake and Nakuchia Lake. 
The Northern point of the lake is called as Mallital and the Southern part as Tallital. 
A bridge connects both these ends, which also house thriving shopping malls with bargain price shops.
Bhimtal is located at a motor able distance of 22 Kilometers. 
The Lake is bejeweled with an island restaurant in the middle of the Lake in this memorable Hill Station in India; Nainital.
Bhimtal is even larger than the Naini Lake, which reflects the surrounding.
Hills and makes Nainital a unique Hill Station in India.
Nakuchia Tal is another lake, which deserves a mention in the pantheon of water bodies in Nainital, the famous Hill Station in India. 
Naini peak is the highest hill point around the city, which makes it the highest place in Nainital, a proud Hill Station in India.
India as a naturally endowed country is rich in natural beauty. 
Hill Stations in India, usually nestled amidst the Hills and mountain ranges in the Northern and the Southern portion of the country, abound in large numbers. 
Western Ghats of the country too boast of very many Hill Stations in India with Nilgiris as the pedestal, which these Hill Stations of India seem to be perched upon.
Much of Nilgiri Hills covers a couple of States and Tamil Nadu being very prominent among them. 
It includes the Cauvery River that originates in the Coorg District of Karnataka and happens to be the lifeline of the Hill's ecosystem.
The heights of this quaint Hill Station in India are gifted with moist deciduous, wet evergreen forests, and grassy knolls. 
Sandalwood happens to be the primary product that is both legitimately and illegitimately extricated out of the Nilgiri Forests making these forests a profitable section of natural bounty for the state governments to upkeep.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, presents a must grab opportunity to the travelers and journeyman to seek out Nigiri Hills. 
The site beckons the clients with on-line booking of tour packages to the Hills and relevant information about the Hill Stations of India ensconced in Nilgiri Hills.
Udghamandalam (Ooty) located at a distance of 105 Kms from Coimbatore is a gem in the repertoire of places in Nilgiri Hills and the Hill Stations in India.
 It is understood to be the Queen of Hill Stations in India nestled among the picturesque Nilgiri Hills, which once again form a favorite retreat for the people of Southern India. 
India Travel Destinations organizes and arranges for tours to Ooty with its vast paraphernalia of linked tours and excursions to the nearby sylvan environs.
The tradition and the subsequent establishment of numerous tea estates made Ooty into a much-visited Hill Station in India. 
Lofty mountains, a dense flora and fauna, surrounding sylvan environs and miles of expanses of tea gardens meet the passenger's eye on most routes.
An excursion to Ooty during the Tea festival, living it up in the middle of tea followers hailing from all across the Globe, makes Ooty a unique Hill Station in India.
 It is an occasion not to be squandered so that one can avail of the tours to Ooty provided by the India Travel Destinations reminding the interested enthusiasts that Ooty is a primary Hill Station in India worth more than a singular visit packed with its evocative sylvan environs.
The government museum located at Ooty boasts of tribal handicrafts, regional ecological details peppered with attractive handicrafts of Tamil Nadu. 
Ooty is connected to Mettupalayam, through railway, which is then, directly connected to Coimbatore and Chennai.