The most popular stretch for river rafting is on the Ganges, near Rishikesh in Uttaranchal.
The 2 main destinations in India, which have scuba diving activities, as well as courses in the sport are the Andamans and Lakshadweep.
There are opportunities for anglers in Bhalukpung in Assam.
The river Jia Bhoroli, Kapili and Manas are the best places for Golden Mahseer angling since the days of the British.
The challenge of the turbulent rivers is no less than that of the rigged mountains.
The icy heights of the Himalayas are the source of some of India's mighty rivers.
Fed by innumerable streams they race along tortuous boulder strewn beds, cutting deep gorges and breaking into silvery white rapids.
With the intricate network of Mountain Rivers flowing through a myriad of different colors of rocky gorges, forests, flowers and high mountain villages, the Garhwal and Kumaon hills provide ideal locales for the perfect water adventure.
The sport of White Water River rafting calls for a triumph over the swift swirling river as it gushes past spectacular mountains.
As with trekking, mountaineering and other sports, river rafting too has been classified and graded in terms of degrees of difficulty.
There is, firstly, the pleasure of a gentle canoe trip in a lightweight alloy metal craft, which holds two to three people.
The gradient best suited for canoeing is the stage near the river's entry into the plains where the trip can be combined with moderate hiking and a naturalist' holiday in the forest. 
For the slightly more adventurous, Kayaking is appealing as it enables innovation on the river by a solitary oarsman of two, seated in tandem, the degree of difficulty would depend on the river radiant and its rapids.
All water sports are for those adventure seekers for whom land is not enough.
The suitable period for river running depends on the adequacy of water volume.
In Garhwal region the sacred river Ganga offers the professional as well as the amateur the exhilaration of white water rafting.
The Alaknanda & Bhagirath are the main tributaries of the Ganga and meet at Devprayag, frothing from their racy descent.
Down river from Devprayag, the Ganga changes into a pool drop river.
Building of Taj Mahal besides the miraculous architectural features and the elaborate ornamentation of the Taj Mahal, many additional features, which can often be overlooked, help complement and enhance this spectacular monument.
Unlike other Mughal tombs, the garden of the Taj Mahal has been laid out entirely in front of the tomb and does not play any part in the 'background'.
The background is not constant; it changes its color and texture more than often, and the Taj is always presented in a variety of tints and moods.
Backround’s shades are subtly reflected on the white marble surface of the Taj Mahal, which changes its color and complexion accordingly.
The Makrana marble used is of such a nature that it takes on incredibly subtle variations of tint and tone, according to the changes in the light, thus picturing the passing color of the moment.
The colossal height of the tomb, along with its pyramidal appearance gives Taj a soaring effect.
Taj appears as if it is about to rise into the sky.
An ethereal quality full of lightness and grace.
The indigenous builders of the Taj Mahal fully understood the deceptive nature of the human eye.
The builders of the Taj Mahal knew that the reality and its perception and interpretation there of differed.
The plinth of the main tomb of Taj Mahal is 2'10'' high on an average.
The convexity has deliberately been given to the plinth in the centre of each arch, or else the building would have appeared as if it were falling down! The facades are not exactly at a right angle with the plinth, but are slightly inclined.
The features of the construction of Taj Mahal demonstrate the ability of the Indian architects to reconcile the illusionary effects created by distance and light.
In Taj Mahal semi octagonal pilasters that rise from the plinth of the main tomb have demarcated sections in each facade.
The letter of the inscription around archways at the Taj Mahal, are generally supposed to become larger and larger above.
Instead, the letters have been inscribed densely at the bottom, with little plain surface in between; the inscription becomes more and more sparse as it rises with plainer surface in between the letters.
The composition of the forms and lines of the Taj Mahal is perfectly symmetrical.
At Taj Mahal we meet with a beautiful admixture of lines, horizontal with vertical, and straight with curved all harmoniously set together in the total unity.
Especially the semi octagonal alcoves at the chamfered angles, which are perceptible from every perspective, view and give a 3dimensional appearance from the outset.
These rooms were originally used for the mullahs to chant the Koran and for Musicians who played soft Indians and Persian melodies.
The central chamber is octagonal, and in the centre is the tomb of the queen and to one side is the casket of the emperor.
A bulbous white double dome majestically crowns the Taj.
Besides providing a suitable and proportionate ceiling to the interior hall, it enabled the builder to raise the height of the outer dome as much as he desired in order to present a lofty and imposing effect.
The Taj Mahal is situated more than 900 ft (275 m.) away from the entrance at the opposite end of the garden.
The marble mausoleum is square in plan with chamfered corners.
The great Mughal emperor Babar laid out this earliest example of a Mughal garden.
This imposing mosque was built in the name of Jehanara Begum, Shah Jehan's daughter.
Fatehpur Sikri is an epic in red sandstone.
A city of yesteryears today lost in the mists of time.
The Mughal Emperor Akbar built Fatehpur Sikri during 1564 A .D.
Fatehpur Sikri is richly decorated structure is a quaint mixture of styles.
Agra Fort is located on the banks of the Yamuna near the railway station.
Agra is well connected by air with Khajuraho, Varanasi, and Delhi.
Agra has good rail and bus connections with major Indian cities.
From the city Agra, there are taxis, tempos, auto rickshaws, and cycle rickshaws to carry one to the Agra fort.
Akbar, king at 14, began consolidating his empire and, as an assertion of his power built the fort in Agra between 1565 and 1571, coeval with the construction of Humayun's tomb in Delhi.
The Agra fort retains the irregular outline of the demolished mud wall fort of the Lodis.
The magnificent towers, bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third Mughal emperor, Akbar.
The fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders Akbar and later Jehangir and Shahjahan.
Of the nearly 500 Akbari buildings built in the Bengal and Gujarati traditions only a few have survived, arrayed in a band on the riverfront.
The Agra fort is auricular in shape and its colossal double walls rise 20 m in height and measure 2. 5 m in circumference.
The Agra fort is encircled by a fetid moat.
The lofty battlements of the Agra fort cast its protective shadow over the far stretching mansions of nobles and princes built along the riverfront.
The magnificent towers, bastions and ramparts and majestic gateways symbolized the confidence and power of the third Mughal emperor.
The Agra fort contains splendid palaces both in red sandstone and white marble built by two generations of prolific builders, Akbar and later on by Jahangir and Shahjahan.
Though Agra is more famous world over as the city of Taj, Agra Fort is another dimension to the city that attracts tourists in hordes.
Built by Akbar in Red Sandstone when he was through with the consolidation of his power after accession to power in 1654, Agra Fort worked both as a military strategic point as well as the royal residence.
Many of the palaces inside the fort were later added by next generations of Mughal Emperors like Jahangir and Shahjahan.
Most of the buildings within the Agra Fort are a mixture of different architectural styles.
The assimilation of different styles has given the buildings within the fort a distinctive look.
For instance, the Jahangiri Palace built by Akbar is a good blend of Islamic (Persian) and different local Hindu styles.
Completed in 1653 A .D. The Taj Mahal built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan as the final resting place for his favorite Queen, Mumtaz.
Finished in by Marvel, Taj is perhaps India’s most fascinating and beautiful monument.
These perfectly symmetrical monuments took 22 years (16301652) of hard labor and 20,000 workers; Masons and Jewelers to built and are set amidst landscaped gardens.
Fatehpur Sikri is an epic in red sandstone.
Fatehpur Sikri a city of yesteryear today lost in the mists of time.
The Mughal Emperor Akbar built Fatehpur Sikri during 1564 A .D.
The mausoleum of Emperor Akbar represents his philosophy and secular outlook, combining the best of Hindu and Muslim architectures in a superlative region.
The great Mughal Emperor Akbar commissioned the construction of the Agra Fort in 1565 A .D ., although additions were made till the time of his grandson Shah Jahan.
ItmadudDaulah is the tomb of Mirza Ghyas Beg, a Persian who had obtained service in Akbar Court.
"Pietra Dura" the inlay works on marble so characteristic of the Taj was first used.
On the sprawling lawns here, is a beautiful marvel temple with beautiful carving of fruits, flowers, leaves and plants which have been reduced into stone true to nature, and are distinctive specimens of the plastic arts.
The time of the year when nature dawns all its colorful splendor and Agra bursts into colorful celebrations.
There are festivities all around and Agra truly puts on the colors of joy and gets transformed into one nonstop carnival.
Organised by U .P. Tourism and held as an annual event at Shilpgram, literally next door to the Taj Mahal, the Taj Mahotsav is indeed a fitting tribute to the legendary skills of master craftsman and other exponents of art, music and cuisine.
The festivities commence with a spectacular procession inspired by Mughal splendor.
All help recreate a visual delight reminiscent of the golden era of the Mughal Darbars.
Agra is famous for handicrafts products such as inlay work on Marvel, Leatherwork, Footwear, and Brass wear, Carpets, Jewelry, Zari and Embroidery work.
Agra is also well known for Petha, Dalmoth and Gajak.
In Agra the main shopping areas are the Sadar Bazar, Kinari Bazar and Munro Road.
State emporia Gangotri (UP Govt . ), Kairali (Kerala), Black Partridge (Haryana) and Kashmir Government Arts Emporium are all located at the Taj Mahal Shopping Arcade, Western Gate.
The Agra city abounds in restaurants, which offer international and Indian cuisines.
Agra is famous for snacks and sweets like Dalmoth and Petha, for which the most recognized area is Kinari Bazar.
The construction of Taj Mahal marble masterpiece is credited to the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan who erected this mausoleum in memory of his beloved wife, Arjumand Bano Begum, popularly known as Mumtaz Mahal, who died in AH 1040 (AD 1630).
Mumtaz Mahal’s last wish to her husband was "to build a tomb in her memory such as the world had never seen before".
The construction of Taj Mahal was started in AD 1632 and completed at the end of 1648 AD.
For seventeen years, twenty thousand workmen are said to be employed on it daily, for their accommodation a small town, named after the deceased empress 'Mumtazabad, now known as Taj Ganj, was built adjacent to it.
The Taj Mahal, the one and only one of its kind across the world.
The monumental labor of love of a great ruler for his beloved queen.
The ultimate realization of Emperor Shahjahan’s dreams one of the wonders of the world.
An estimated 20,000 people worked to complete the enchanting mausoleum, on the banks of the Yamuna.
Amanat Khan Shirazi was the calligrapher of Taj Mahal, his name occurs at the end of an inscription on one of the gates of the Taj.