Nevada's first settlement was Genoa, near Carson City, settled by Mormons in 1849, and then called Mormon Station.
Nevada's name was adopted in 1861 when territory was established. The name was derived from the Spanish language, meaning "snow-capped".
Nevada was made famous by the discovery of the fabulous Comstock Lode in 1859 and its mines have produced large quantities of gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, mercury, barite, and tungsten.
Oil was discovered in 1954. Gold now far exceeds all other minerals in value of production.
Many people are attracted by gambling, which was legalized in 1931, helping make Nevada the nation’s gambling and entertainment capital.
Nevada now ranks 4th among the states in total gambling revenue, but is first in the amount per resident.
Reno and Las Vegas gained fame as the 'divorce capitals of the nation', though more liberal laws in other states have had an impact.
Whites comprised the largest share of the population, 75.2 percent, in 2000, while blacks were 6.8 percent of the people, Asians 4.5 percent, Native Americans 1.3 percent, Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders 0.4 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 11.8 percent.
Many Native Americans live on reservations, which are scattered widely over the state while some Native Americans own individually allotted grazing lands. 
The Pine Tree State, Border State, Old Dirigo State, Maine may have been named by French colonists after the French province of Mayne, or it may derive from "Main," a common term among early explorers to describe a mainland.
Located in the Northeastern United States, northernmost of the six New England states and the easternmost of the 50 states.
Maine is bordered by New Hampshire (southwest), Quebec, Canada (northwest), New Brunswick, Canada (northeast), Atlantic Ocean and Bay of Fundy (eastern coastline).
Maine leads the world in the production of flat sardine tins and normally produces about half the nation’s lobsters.
Wilderness areas and rugged coast makes Maine a popular vacation land.
Maine has a humid continental climate with a moderate summer and a long winter. Average summer temperatures are in 62° to 70° range though same summer days can hover in high 90s .
The Native American Red Paint people left burial mounds in south-central Maine and when Europeans arrived, the Abnaki lived along the coast and in some inland areas.
The 1st Europeans were John Cabot and his son Sebastian is believed to have visited the coast in 1498, more than a century before the first settlements were established.
The first white (Caucasians) settlement was established by the Plymouth Company at Popham in 1607.
The question of Maine's ownership was a matter of continuing dispute between England and France throughout the first half of the 18th century.
The 18th century period was also marked by a series of raids by Native Americans on Caucasians settlements which had the active support of the French interested in seeing the English settlers driven from the land. 
In the late-1700s, a number of battles flared up in Maine during the Revolutionary War.
About 1,000 men lost their lives in the war, the district's sea trade was all but destroyed, and the principal city had been leveled by bombardment.
Once Maine became a separate state there followed a period of tremendous economic growth in which a number of important mining manufacturing industries emerged.
Lumbering, traditional fishing and shipbuilding pursuits entered a boom period and ice harvesting, granite and lime quarrying also developed as important industries. 
The earliest permanent European settlers in Maine came from western England who were soon followed by the Scots-Irish and by a number of Quakers, or Friends, from the other New England colonies.
In the 1740s Germans settled in Waldboro, and soon afterward many Irish Roman Catholics moved to York, Lincoln, and Cumberland counties.
The French, who controlled much of Maine's territory until 1759, were not active colonists. However, a number of families of French Huguenots settled along the coast.
Caucasians comprise the vast majority of Maine's residents, representing 96.9 percent of the people in 2000. Another 0.7 percent are Asians, 0.6 percent are Native Americans, 0.5 percent are blacks, and 1.2 percent are of mixed heritage or did not report ethnicity.
The Aloha State (1959) also known as the Pineapple State, Youngest State, and The Paradise of the Pacific. Hawaii is named from the Hawaiian language meaning "raging," which could refer to Hawaii's volcanoes.
Hawaii and its 1,523-mile chain of islets and eight main islands (Hawaii, Kahoolawe, Maui, Lanai, Molokai, Oahu, Kauai, and Niihau) are 2,397 miles west-southwest of San Francisco.
Weather on all of the Hawaiian islands is very consistent, with only moderate changes in temperature throughout the year.
This moderate changes is possible due to the year-round warm sea surface temperatures, which keeps the overlying atmosphere warm as well.
In practical terms there are only 2 seasons in Hawaii: the summer months (called Kau in Hawaiian) that extend from May to October and the winter months (Ho'oilo) that run from November to April.
The average day-time summer temperature at sea level is 85 degrees F. (29.4 C) while the average day-time winter temperature is 78 degrees (25.6 C). Night-time temperatures are approximately 10 degrees F. lower.
First settled by Polynesians sailing from other Pacific islands between C.E. 300 and 600.
Captain James Cook, the great Pacific explorer, happened upon the islands during his third voyage in 1778 who called the group the Sandwich Islands.
Hawaii's long isolation ended at that moment. Soon, King Kamehameha the Great embarked on his successful campaign to unite the islands into one kingdom.
At times, as many as 500 whaling ships wintered in Hawaiian ports, principally Lahaina and Honolulu.
In 1820, the brig Thaddeus from Boston arrived with the first missionary families. 
Hawaii was a native kingdom throughout most of the 19th century, when the expansion of the vital sugar industry (pineapple came after 1898) meant increasing U.S. business and political involvement.
In 1893, Queen Liliuokalani was deposed and a year later the Republic of Hawaii was established with Sanford B. Dole as president.
Much has changed about the Hawaii visitor industry since May 14, 1902, when W. C. Weedon convinced a group of Honolulu businessmen to pay him to advertise the Territory of Hawaii on the Mainland.
But one thing has stayed the same: Throughout the years, the entities which have promoted Hawaii to the world have also had to promote themselves to Hawaii.
Despite the grumbling of powerful sugar planters, it was under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants Association that the business of tourism promotion began.
The Japanese attack on the naval base at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941 brought an abrupt end to tourism in Hawaii.
Three years later, the Chamber of Commerce began bringing it back to life with a Hawaii Travel Bureau, which concerned itself with leaving a friendly Territorial impression on the servicemen who were soon to go home.
Steadily during the 60's, 70's, and 80's the tourism exceeded the millions while the yearly tourism total reached nearly seven million people in 1990.
The territorial date Aug. 12, 1898 is that of the formal transfer to the United States, with Sanford B. Dole as first Governor.
But sometime after the beginning of the Christian era, Polynesians first set foot on these islands.
Linguistic and cultural evidence suggest that the first inhabitants came from the Marquesas Group, to the north of Tahiti. 
During the 13th and 14th centuries, waves of immigrants from Tahiti overwhelmed and absorbed the original people.
Since the earliest Hawaiians were possibly somewhat smaller than the later immigrants, they may form the basis for the legends of the menehunes, who were pictured by the later Hawaiians as hardworking elves. 
In 1835, the first commercial production of sugar cane began and this crop took on ever-increasing economic importance, especially after the decline of the great whaling fleets.
Native Hawaiians did not take kindly to the tedious labor of a plantation worker and, in any case, the native population had been seriously depleted by disease.
Puerto Rico is a territory (Commonwealth) of the United States of America and Puerto Ricans have common citizenship, currency and defense.
Although Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, residents of Puerto Rico pay no federal income tax, nor can they vote in presidential elections.
As citizens, Puerto Ricans do not require a work visa (also known as green cards) to live and/or work in the United States.
Over 2 million Puerto Ricans live in the United States, primarily in the northeast. 
Puerto Ricans consider themselves American but are fiercely proud of their island and their culture. They don't usually call themselves Americans or "Americanos", but "Puertorriqueños" or "Boricuas". To most Puerto Ricans, "my country" means "Puerto Rico", not the United States. 
The island of Puerto Rico is almost rectangular in shape, and is the smallest and the most eastern island of the Greater Antilles.
Puerto Ricans’s coasts measures approximately 580 km, and if the adjacent islands Vieques and Culebra are included the coast measures approximately 700 km. To the north and south seas capes measure 8.525 m for the Grave of Puerto Rico and 5.000 m for the Grave of Tanner.
In addition to the principal island, the Commonwealth includes: Vieques, Culebra, Culebrita, Palomino (known by some by the Spanish Virgin Islands), Mona, Monito and various others isolated islands.
The people of Puerto Rico represent a cultural and racial mix.
When the Spanish forced the Taíno people into slavery, the entire indigenous population was virtually decimated, except for a few Amerindians who escaped into the remote mountains.
Eventually they inter-married with the poor Spanish farmers and became known as jíbaros.
Besides the slaves imported from Africa (Sudan, Kongo, Senegal, Guinea, Sierra Leona, and the Gold, Ivory, and Grain coasts), other ethnic groups brought to work on the plantations joined the island's racial mix.
Fleeing Simón Bolívar's independence movements in South America, Spanish loyalists fled to Puerto Rico - a fiercely conservative Spanish colony during the early 1800s.
As changing governments or violent revolutions depressed the economies of Scotland and Ireland, many farmers from those countries also journeyed to Puerto Rico in search of a better life. 
When the United States acquired the island in 1898, American influence was added to culture. 
During the mid-19th century, labor was needed to build roads, initially; Chinese workers were imported for this task, followed by workers from such countries as Italy, France, Germany, and even Lebanon.
Long after Spain had lost control of Puerto Rico, Spanish immigrants continued to arrive on the island.
The most significant new immigrant population arrived in the 1960s, when thousands of Cubans fled from Fidel Castro's Communist state.
The new and the old merged, where two worlds and many culture fused, creating an island of sharp contrasts.
Today, this mix of culture can be perceived in the island's architecture, which mixes Spanish colonial with ultra-modern, shown on the abundance of North American-style malls and fast-food restaurants that compete with small, family-run stores and restaurants. 
The 3.950 million people that inhabit the island of Puerto Rico make it one of the most densely populated islands in the world.
There are about 1,000 people per square mile, a ratio higher than within any of the 50 states in the United States.
Had these people remained in Puerto Rico, the island would be so densely populated that there would be virtually no room for people to live.
Because of the massive migration to the mainland, more Puerto Ricans are said to live in New York City than in San Juan.
In recent years, many Puerto Ricans have returned to their island home, in large part because of inadequate economic opportunity in the United States. 
On the island, one-third of the population is concentrated in the San Juan-Carolina-Bayamón metropolitan area. 
Puerto Rico is a self-governing commonwealth in association with the United States.
The three islands and 60-odd cays that comprise the US Virgin Islands include some of the most magnificent coast on earth.
Located between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, east of Puerto Rico, the tiny addendum to the stars and stripes earns its crust providing a taste of paradise and a bit of light relief to nearly two million vacationers each year.
Swanky resorts, an armada of cruise ships and a massive yacht charter industry hardly sound like the turf of the indie traveler.
However, it is possible to travel the Virgin Islands - especially low-key St John - without joining Bud and Barbara on the poop deck with a piña colada in hand.
The first residents of the present United States Virgin Islands (USVI) were the Ciboney, Caribs, and Arawaks.
In 1493, Christopher Columbus visited these islands, he had been searching for a route to India and so he called the people Indians.
Columbus named the beautiful islands 'The Virgins' in reference to the legendary beauty of St. Ursula and her 11,000 virgins.
Columbus' visit would prove to be the demise of the indigenous 'Indians'.
The islands went through a period of sleep after Columbus' visit; they awakened to have Holland, France, England, Spain, Denmark and the Knights of Malta seeking to settle in the islands.
Between the attempted settlements, pirates and buccaneers also showed a great interest in the islands.
The Danish West India Company successfully established a settlement on St. Thomas in 1672 and on St. John in 1694.
The governors realized an influx of pirates would benefit local merchants.
The three islands, St. Croix, St. Thomas and St. John, were known as the Danish West Indies.
The islands became major sugar producers relying on slavery to keep the economy strong.
The islands remained Danish colonies until 1917, when the United States purchased them for $25 million in gold.
The Virgin Islands were used as a defense center during World War II. In the years after the end of World War II, the USVI moved into a new position as a tourist destination.
The territory is under the jurisdiction of the president of the United States of America. People born in the USVI are American citizens.
The islands of St. Croix, St. Thomas, St. John and Water Island entered the new millennium as one of the premiere destinations for tourist visiting the Caribbean.
The islands were purchased to improve military positioning during critical times of World War I.