From bizarre lunar landscapes and the mighty Atlantic to labyrinthine caves and crystal clear waterways, discover Ireland’s breathtaking beauty.
Ireland may be known as the land that boasts 40 shades of green, but not all natural attractions shimmer a shade of emerald.
The Burren was formed around 340 million years ago at the bottom of a sea, and is an extraordinary region stretching from north Clare to south  Galway.
Arrestingly dramatic in appearance, the Burren’s unique landscape includes miles of limestone layers cut through by meandering streams, labyrinthine caves and unexpected lakes, a phenomenally rich cultural heritage, including over 70% of Ireland’s native flora.
Burren is also home to more than 500 ring forts and over 80 Neolithic tombs.
The bizarre lunar landscape of the Giant’s Causeway may have been caused by volcanic eruptions and cooling lava, but legend tells a different story. 
The Causeway (A UNESCO World Heritage Site) is a mesmerising collection of tightly packed basalt columns that run from the cliffs of the Antrim Plateau right down to the sea. 
Similar stones on the island of Straffa in the Scottish Hebrides led the ancients to believe that it was the work of giant Finn MacCool who built County Antrim’s Causeway as a pathway to Scotland, where a rival giant lived.
Ireland enjoys over 1,448km of spectacular coastline, surrounded by the mighty Atlantic on the west and the Irish Sea on the east. 
As well as towering cliffs, clear fresh waters, pristine sandy beaches, and an abundance of opportunities for the watersports enthusiast, the coastline enjoys lively fishing villages with some of the best seafood in the world.
Check out Kinsale in County Cork, Dingle in County Kerry, Dunmore East in County Waterford, Roundstone in County Galway, Cushendun in County Antrim and Kilcar in County Donegal.
At 344km in length, the River Shannon is the longest river in Ireland and one of the finest in Europe. 
Winding through an area of outstanding natural beauty, this unspoilt waterway flows from the Shannon Pot on the slopes of the Cuilcagh Mountains in County  Cavan to Loop Head in County  Clare, where it meets the Atlantic.
Rich in glorious scenery, filled with prolific wildlife, and dotted with pretty villages, the Shannon Erne Waterway is the longest naviagle waterway in Europe, and is a paradise for nature lovers, boating enthusiasts and those who prefer the quiet life.
Isolated and remote, Ireland’s islands resound with mythical beauty and are excellent hideaways for those after a holiday away from it all.
Many of Ireland’s islands didn’t have electricity until the 1970s and a more traditional ethos endures amongst the islanders. 
For a real break away from it all, try Coney Island, Tory Island, Clare Island, Rathlin and the fabled  fabled  fabled  Aran Islands. 
Boasting breathtaking landscapes, magnificent waterways, and castles that come alive with historical significance, you'll be spoilt for choice for things to see and do when you visit Ireland
Whether your passion is golf, fishing or even splashing about on a surfboard, Ireland has the perfect locations, not to mention the best natural backdrops in the world
Capture the imagination with a visit to one of Ireland's castles, monuments,stately homes, or beautiful gardens, many with compelling tales of times gone by
In Ireland, coarse fishing is free almost everywhere! Great catches, friendly hostelries, good food and tall stories guaranteed
Proving the pen is mightier than the sword, the Irish have a unique way with words that can be enjoyed through the ages.
With finely crafted lawns, exquisite flowers and impressive fountains and ponds, Ireland’s stately homes host the best in world-class horticulture.
The Irish love a good excuse for a party.
The country is legendary for its “craic” (good fun), and  “fleadhs“ (traditional music events),  festivals and fairs are a massive part of cultural life whether it’s the gastronomic delights of the Kinsale Gourmet Festival or the high-brow Dublin Theatre Festival.
If you’re looking for something unique or if you want to meet your match, then head to the Lisdoonvarna Matchmaking Festival.
It’s Europe’s biggest singles event and one of the oldest festivals in Ireland.
Puck Fair in  Kerry, where a goat is crowned king, is well worth a trip, while the Ould Lammas Fair in North  Antrim draws crowds from all over the world.
The Leprechaun of Celtic folktales is a cantankerous, cranky little man who mends shoes for other fairies, quite different from the cheery folk created by the 1959 Walt Disney film Darby O’Gill and The Little People.
The Irish like to think that Celtic blood flows through the veins of all the great and the good. 
The Irish accent is famed the world over for its romantic and lyrical liltrature.
The Irish of the north, south, east, west and midlands all love to tell a story or two and it would be a shame to miss out.
Pets entering the island of Ireland from Canada are subject to six months quarantine unless they have undergone the requirements of the UK Pet Travel Scheme and obtained the requisite ‘Passport for Pets’ and entered Ireland through the UK.
Create your own unique journey around the wonderful wilds of Ireland with a trip of a lifetime you’ll never forget
Whether you want to bond with Mother Nature on a cycling odyssey, or savour our sumptuous local ingredients with a stylish food adventure – we’ve got a tour to suit your tastes.
Wherever you want to go, whatever you want to do, you can tailor-make an itinerary that is guaranteed to thrill the senses with memories you’ll cherish forever.
From the high-brow elegance of  Northern Ireland’s Houses and Gardens to the comfort of a spectacular  self-drive around some of the country’s most exceptional scenic sights.
Ryder Cup, an estimated 40,000 people attended the matches on each of the three days, and over 400million TV viewers worldwide tuned in to witness this amazing event and Europe's emphatic and emotional win for the third time in a row.
Ryder Cup is exhilarating golfing competition dates back to 1927 when the first matches were staged in the USA.
Ireland is blessed with over  400 golf clubs and boasts some of the world’s most breathtaking landscapes.
A whopping 30% of the world’s links courses are right here, and big names like Tiger Woods, Jack Nicklaus and Seve Ballesteros have all teed off on our exceptional courses.
The venue for the 2006 event was the prestigiouls K Club in County Kildare.
The Palmer Course will obviously be otherwise occupied during the Ryder Cup, but you could always take a swing at any of the other courses peppered around the country.
The brainchild of Samuel Ryder, an avid golfer and seed merchant by trade, he was dismayed to see British and American golfers standing apart from each other at a pre-Open qualifying tournament.
Samuel Ryder came up with the novel idea of pitching the two nations against each other.
first players from continental Europe joined the competition in 1979 and, after years of US domination, the tide began to turn.
The Ryder Cup has been held every two years since it first took place in Worcester Country Club, Massachusetts, when the US beat the UK by 9 1/2 – 2 1/2.
There are two notable exceptions: in 2001 it was called off due to terrorist attacks in the US, and from 1937-47 players didn’t compete due to World War II.
Ideally located close to Dublin airport but in the heart of the lush Kildare countryside, The K Club boasts two magnificent championship 18 hole courses, the Palmer Course and the Smurfit Course.
Both are designed by the legendary Arnold Palmer, but the Ryder Cup matches will take place on the Palmer Course, which is largely acknowledged as Ireland’s most challenging inland layout.
The only golfer to have played in more Ryder Cup matches than the legendary Irishman Christy O’Connor is Englishman Nick Faldo.
Ireland has a long history of prestigious involvement with the Cup, with the likes of Fred Daly, Harry Bradshaw, Christy O’Connor Senior and Junior, Philip Walton and Des Smyth, as well as today’s top players Darren Clarke, Pádraig Harrington and Paul McGinley all playing a vital role in the competition.
Perched on the edge of Europe and resounding with mythical beauty,  Ireland’s landscape is rich and varied with misty bogs, shimmering green pastureland, craggy mountains, clean white-sand beaches, valleys, rivers and lakes. 
The coastline is particularly spectacular with craggy coves, inlets and bays shaped by the mighty Atlantic Ocean, the Celtic Sea and the Irish Sea.
The Shannon Erne Waterway, the longest navigable river in Ireland, weaves its way peacefully though the heart of Ireland from the Shannon Pot in County  Cavan right through to the Atlantic Ocean.
Ireland is also blessed with bounteous scenic lakes including Lough Neagh, the largest lake in Ireland, the Fermanagh Lakelands, Lough Derg, Lough Rea, Lough Allen, Lough Erne and Lough Corrib.
Climb away! There are so many wonderful mountains to climb in Ireland that you won’t know where to start.
The highest peak is Carrauntuohill in Kerry’s Macgillycuddy’s Reeks, which is 1041m high. Other scenic ranges with excellent walking opportunities and trails are the Slieve Bloom Mountains, the Mournes, the Sperrin Mountains, the Twelve Bens and the Wicklow Mountains
For a touch of history, try Croagh Patrick – where Ireland’s patron saint spent 40 days fasting, and which is still climbed by thousands of pilgrims ever year.
Forget having to hunt around for spectacular scenery, everywhere you look in Ireland you’ll be knocked out by awe-inspiring landscapes and truly beautiful vistas.
Despite being a reasonably small island, Ireland is packed with a wide variety of scenic treats.
When it comes to beaches, Ireland has a fantastic selection with some of the most scenic stretches in Europe.
Try Duncannon Beach in  Wexford, Dunmore East in  Waterford, Mullaghmore  in  Mayo, Portstewart Strand in  Londonderry, Rossknowlagh in  Donegal and the five beautiful Blue Flag beaches around Achill Island.
If the lure of the club doesn’t tempt you, try cantering down a pristine stretch of beach on  horseback; cruising at your leisure alongside the glistening Shannon Erne Waterway; or even testing your stamina with a scenic  cycling holiday.
Most of the major car rental companies have desks at airports, ferry terminals and cities across Ireland.
It is advisable to book in advance, especially if you are travelling during the high season, as it is generally cheaper.
For insurance reasons you should advise the car rental company if you intend travelling between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The Republic of Ireland has introduced a blanket ban on smoking in all places of work to protect public health and reduce the incidences of smoking-related illness. 
Smoking is prohibited in public areas within the Republic of Ireland – this includes all bars, nightclubs and restaurants.
Although hotel bedrooms may be exempt from the ban, it is applied to all other areas within hotels.(The date for introduction was March 29, 2004.)
Ireland is a small country, but there’s a staggering amount to see and do, so what you can’t fit in on your first visit, you can always leave until your next one.
The country’s compact size makes it easy to travel around, and the easygoing locals live up to their reputation as being one of the friendliest people in the world.
Ireland’ is a land of contrasts and it’s thrilling to uncover the country’s many different sides all with their own magnetic appeal.
From the urban buzz of  Dublin,  Belfast,  Cork,  Galway,  Londonderry and  Limerick, to the sparkling seas of the and  North and  West coast to the crisp, fresh air of the countryside, Ireland is full of surprises! Simply search our database for  things to see and do to suit your taste.
Ireland’s history will blow your mind. From turbulent land wars to tragic famines, the country’s past is written all over the land with an exceptional array of  historical attractions which are guaranteed to entrance, stun and fascinate the visitor.
Once you've decided you're  going to stay, simply check out the historical landmarks around you, which can tell some amazing tales - it’s worth noting that the best guides can often be the locals you meet in the street.
Good roads, domestic airlines, and bus and rail services mean  getting around Ireland is hassle-free.
You can take things at your own pace by  hiring a car from one of the many locations in city centres and at all major airports.
Getting here has never been easier thanks to fantastic deals on  flights and  ferries from all over the world.
Ireland’s a haven of top-class  accommodation with something to suit everyone from the most decadent  castles and hotels to  B&Bs that ooze charm.
You can also rest your head in superb self-catering apartments and houses, elegant guesthouses, and quality hostels.
Ireland enjoys such a mild, temperate climate all year round there’s never a bad time to visit the thoroughbreds at the Irish National Stud in  Kildare, walk the one-mile route along the Walls of  Londonderry, or even climb the Holy Mountain of Croagh Patrick in County  Mayo.
Ireland is a land of surprises so it’s always a good idea to slip a raincoat and umbrella into your backpack – no matter what the season.
Ireland is on Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and, in accordance with daylight saving, clocks are put forward one hour mid-March and back one hour at the end of October. 
During summer it stays light until as late as 11pm but by mid-December it can be dark by 4pm.
Vaccines are neither compulsory nor necessary unless you are travelling from an infected country.
A valid Canadian passport is required to visit the island of Ireland and no visa is required.
Visitors of all other nationalities should contact their local Irish Embassy/Consulate prior to travelling to the Republic of Ireland and visitors to Northern Ireland should contact their local British Embassy, high Commission or Consular Office. 
Regardless of country of origin, your passport should be valid for 6 months following your return to Canada.
Most of the major car rental companies have desks at airports, ferry terminals and cities across Ireland.
Generally, these companies do not rent cars to drivers under 21and it is advisable to book in advance, especially if you are travelling during the high season, as it is generally cheaper.
For insurance reasons you should advise the car rental company if you intend travelling between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The Amazon Rainforest was awarded World Natural Heritage by UNESCO status in 2000, and 2003.
Next to the grandeur of the Amazon's natural giants, prepare to be overwhelmed by an unusual sense of smallness.
You could also try to mentally, emotionally, and physically prepare yourself for any of the typical experiences and encounters you will have in the Amazon.
Here you will learn medicinal secrets of the endangered and, in many cases, extinct indigenous tribes, snuggle sloths, drink water from the insides of trees, watch monkeys swing through the magnificent branches of "the world's lungs".
marvel at lily-pads the size of your kitchen table, eat fruits you never would have imagined existed, canoe through the endless waterworld of the amazon, stopping to fish for piranhas and visit with local river dwellers, capture dazzling sunsets, and fall asleep at night hypnotized by the symphonic hum of the ecosystem.
Welcome to the Amazon, your destination for adrenaline and rejuvenation.
Several options exist to enter the rainforest. Daily flights from the majority of Brazil's cities service Manaus, the premier gateway to the Amazon.  
Manaus stands as the living monument of the rubber boom.