They are both typical little market towns but tall coconut palms sway in the cool breeze, cashew plantations dot the surrounding countryside and scenic little houses line the streets.
The backwater cruises in Kerala are definitely a mustdo.
The houseboats may look rugged on the outside but inside they have a quaint rustic softness.
Western toilets, neat rooms, fresh catch cooked to perfection in the local way, a gently nattering boat man this is life! The summers are muggy till the rains break and bring wet relief in June.
The slush becomes all pervasive, and so do the green and the bugs.
Hardened travelers wouldn’t mind but novices and strictly pleasure travelers should stick with the October to February official season.
Long serpentine boats rowed in rhythmic frenzy by multiple sets of shining able bodied Malayali men compete for this prized trophy.
The boat race is held in mid January for tourists, while the real competition is scheduled for the second Saturday of August, every year.
There The nearest airport is at Thiruvananthapuram, which is easily accessible from Kollam Quite a few trains pass through Kollam on their way to and from larger cities.
The best train journey is the one from Chennais Egmore; the Quilon Mail winds its way beautifully across the Western Ghats.
A great arrangement is to have a hired taxi waiting for you to ferry you around after your Kettuvallam cruise down the backwaters gets over.
Accommodation Theres a range of accommodation but it doesn’t go too far up in the luxury bracket.
But, basically, from railway restrooms to shack establishments to air-conditioned doubles with attached bathrooms, its all there.
You’re bound to enjoy the lagoons no matter what but mosquito repellent, drinking water, cottons and sun protection gear will probably help you enjoy them better.
Thank God that Mumbai has any number of little beaches that you can escape to when the going gets tough.
One such beach is Alibag, an evergreen favorite of the sun and sea freak, a resort that you can reach in an hour by catamaran or a three hour drive from Mumbai.
Alibag is like a tropical island, all lush trees and palm fringed beaches.
Coconut palms, mango orchards, chikoo wadis and paddy fields make Alibag a pleasantly verdant and unpolluted retreat.
The area is particularly beautiful during the monsoons, with rain washed trees and the goodly smell of wet earth making you wish you could stay here forever.
Like other beaches on the Konkan coast, Alibag too has a historic fort, the, which is just off the main sea shore.
The fort can be visited during low tide when the waters have receded.
It is important to time your trip otherwise you can get stranded once the tide comes in.
However, if you do get marooned, there is a small village within the fort where you can potter around.
From the main beach it will take about half an hour to walk to Kulaba fort, but a tonga can get you there quickly. 
Built in 1680 by Shivaji, the fort is now crumbling all that remains are the ramparts and a moss encrusted step well.
But it's still a great place to clamber around, look out at the sea and snap pictures of the shoreline.
Though Alibag is great for sunbathing, going for long walks and building sand castles, the waters are not very safe for anything more than paddling.
There is a strong undercurrent and it is best not to swim out to sea unless you are a proficient swimmer.
Hopefully, you will be lulled into complete submission by the Alibag magic and will want to spend your time lazing on the beach and not doing much else! Alibag is 108 km from Mumbai by road, a journey of 3 hours via Navi Mumbai.
Konkan Railway trains from CST stop at Pen, 28 km from Alibag, from where you can take a bus, auto rickshaw or taxi.
The quickest way to get here is by launch (1 ½ hours) from Mumbai's Ferry Wharf at Sewri, alighting at Mandwa and catching a bus from the jetty to Alibag.
There are catamarans and speedboat services (25 minutes) from Gateway of India to Mandwa.
You can use auto rickshaws to move around within Alibag.
Any time is a good time! Alibag has a range of accommodation options, from luxury hotels to mid budget motels and economy lodges.
Advance bookings are recommended, especially during the holiday season.
For further information contact MTDC, Nariman Point.
Around & About By air Bamrauli airport lies 18 kms out of the city.
At the time of writing, no commercial airlines operate to Allahabad.
The closest operational airport is at Varanasi, which is four hours away by road.
Allahabad is on the main broad gauge trunk line between Delhi and Calcutta.
Trains on this line stop at the Allahabad Junction Station in the Civil Lines area.
By road If you are driving around India, the city is extremely well connected from all directions.
The city is connected to most place in Uttar Pradesh and around by state and national highways.
All east bound traffic coming from the north has to pass Allahabad.
The roads are reasonably good and driving on them is quite pleasant, particularly if you have a driver.
Buses terminate at the Leader Road bus stand, the Zero Road bus stand and MG Marg bus stand.
Renting cars through travel agents or from your hotel is really quite the most convenient way to get around.
These cars are all chauffeur driven; self driven cars are not available for hire.
Cycle rickshaws, auto rickshaws and private taxis are the other modes of transportation.
The regional tourist office is located at Tourist Bungalow, 35 M .G. Marg. 
The best time to visit Allahabad is during the winters between November and March.
The Magh Mela in January is an important religious event for Hindus.
Allahabad has a wide range of hotels, with budget hotels located around the Chowk in the old city.
The more expensive and modern hotels are in the Civil Lines area.
You may not find international chains and super deluxe hotels, but some of the new ones have pretty good facilities and are of a fairly high standard.
If you are traveling to Allahabad in summer, light cottons are sufficient.
In winter, light woolens would be required as the evenings get chilly.
You are in the heart of conservative India, so perhaps you won’t want to use the stripy bare more clothes the summer definitely warrants.
Restaurants cater mainly to the local citizens and provide good, clean and tasty fare.
Allahabad has a rich tradition of classical Indian music and many music concerts are organized in the winter months.
The Prayag Sangeet Samiti organizes dance and music evenings in the city.
The Mayo Hall Complex is a complete sports complex with table tennis, basketball, badminton and volleyball facilities.
The main shopping area is around the Civil Lines, Chowk and Katra regions.
Chowk is the traditional old city bazaar, while Civil Lines is more up market.
Allahabad is the city that hosts throngs of pilgrims each year at the religious fairs the annual Magh Mela, the Ardh Kumbha Fair (6 yearly) and the Maha Kumbha, which occurs every twelve years.
The fairs are held on the banks of the Sangam the confluence of the three sacred rivers Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati.
9 kms from Allahabad is the ancient site of Pratisthanpuri.
Reached after crossing the Ganga on boat or via road, the site has several temples and ashrams.
22 kms southwest of Allahabad, is an archaeological site dating well before the 3 rd century BC. 
Originally excavated in 191011, the site revealed evidence of ancient habitation and was a major trade centre.
The mythological kingdom of Nishadraj or the king of boatmen sits 40 kms away on the banks of the Ganga.
Known as, this ancient site with its Ramchaura is believed to be the spot where Lord Rama stayed a night before being taken across the river by Nishadraj.
Besides these ancient sites, about 45 kms from Allahabad are popular picnic spots for local people.
Once the provincial capital of the region, the town has some Hindu shrines including the Sheetla Mata temple and the Kaleshwar Mahadev temple of Lord Shiva.
62 kms from Allahabad, next to the Yamuna River sits the ancient town of.
Legend says the town was settled by descendants of the Pandavas who fled the flooded city of Hastinapur.
Early excavations at Kausambi revealed an important Buddhist site where the Buddha himself came to preach.
Referred by the Chinese traveler Hiuen Tsang, this town was continuously inhabited from the 8th century BC till the 6th century AD. 
Inside are remains of brick houses, paved roads, tanks, a drainage system and a large 5th century BC Stupa.
A damaged Ashokan column is one of the few standing structures among the ruins.
Accessed from Allahabad by taxis or private cars, you can also reach Kausambi by a daily bus from the Leader Road bus stand.
Climate Allahabad has hot summers with temperatures rising beyond 40°C during the day.
Monsoon showers between June and September bring some respite, while winters get cold with night temperatures dipping to about 8° Centigrade.
In the heart of northern India watered by the two sacred rivers of Ganga and Yamuna lies the city of Allahabad.
The two rivers along with the mythical river Saraswati meet in this holy city creating the sangam (confluence) also known as the triveni (meeting of three rivers).
Located on a strategic point in the heartland of India Allahabad was also of great importance for the Mughal rulers and later the British.
In Allahabad the British formally transferred the governance of India from the East India Company to the Crown.
In the subsequent years of struggle for independence from colonial rule Allahabad became one of the focal points of the freedom fighters.
Home to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru the first Prime Minister of independent India it witnessed many important landmarks in the freedom movement.
Governance Allahabad has remained in political limelight in the post Independence years with high profile leaders contesting elections from its parliamentary constituency.
Considered a testing ground for parties who want to control the majority Hindu heartland, it has witnessed some of the most colorful electoral battles of independent India.
Habitat Allahabad lies on the flood plains between Yamuna and Ganga, known as the Doab.
The city has grown into a busy commercial and administrative hub and an important academic centre.
The old city built by the Mughal Emperor Akbar stands to the south along the banks of the Yamuna.
The colonial cantonment area to the north is a neatly laid out grid plan of avenues and bungalows along with churches and important educational institutions.
The story so far Allahabad finds reference in ancient Hindu scriptures including the Vedas, Puranas and the epic Ramayana as Prayag, the confluence of the three holy rivers of Yamuna, Ganga and Saraswati.
The latter is a subterranean river believed to emerge at the Sangam or confluence to join with the other two rivers.
Known as Tirtha Raj or the king of all pilgrimages, Allahabad was believed to have been chosen by Lord Brahma for the sacred confluence.
According to legend, this is the spot where the sage Bharadwaj had his Ashram , where thousands of students lived and studied under him Lord Rama, the hero of the epic Ramayana also visited the ashram.  
Historical evidence of a very ancient settlement has been found at archaeological sites in Allahabad.