In Delhi Khan Market is immensely popular with foreign diplomats and expatriates. 
You are sure to enjoy shopping for ‘ethnic’ clothes from Anokhi, fabindia and Kotwara in Khan market. 
Handi crafts Bhavan, Baba Kharak Singh Marg, a relatively new complex that’s come up between the state emporia, it is choc-a-block with the crafts stalls of several NGOs.
On offer is an amazing range of contemporarily styled handicrafts-sleeker and definitely more innovative than anything you’ll see in the state emporia. 
M Block Market Greater Kialash, Part I, is one Delhi’s swankiest markets, and a hang out zone for the young and trendy.
Shopping here is a cash-intensive affair, but the range is wide and quality great, especially good for shoes, bags, jewellery, clothes, skincare products and cosmos. 
Ambawatta is no longer the hub of designer stores but the action now seems to have moved to the Cresscent (near Qutub), Garden of the Five Sense (off Saket), and Lodhi Colony.
Chnadigarh, the first modern and planned city of India, is unique in many ways.
Chandigarh is dynamic and vibrant and its unique architectural signature, excellent town planning, serene and clean environment, offset its cosmopolitan character.
Chandigarh is located in foothill of the Shivalik Hills as a gateway to the Himalayas, it is one of India’s success stories-it is veritable tourist’s paradise. 
With a view to making Chandigarh a favoured destination, the Chandigarh Administration will focus on adding new features and strengthening the network of tourism related support services and the Film Festival as well as the traditional Rose Festival and Chandigarh Carnival, are all must-sees. 
Perhaps our biggest and most exciting plan is the mega Theme-cum-Amusement Park on the outskirts of Chandigarh and a Multimedia-cum-Film city and we are expecting at least a million visitors to the Theme Park annually. 
Taj Chandigarh, sector 17 A, is undoubtedly the best stay option in the city, certainly located with some great, popular restaurants.
The ambience of the Dera restaurant is as far removed from the Dhabas of the city as possible but it is a great place to sample the robust non-vegetarian cuisine of Punjab and the North-West Frontier. 
Opt for Black Lotus if you want some great Oriental food and the rooms here are plush, spacious and the personalized service makes al the difference.
The Kaptain’s Retreat, Sector 35B, hotel is partly owned by the city’s best known resident, Kapil Dev, is reason enough for some people to stay here.
With cricketing memorabilla strewn al over the place, The Kaptain’s Retreat one will be of special interest to those who love the game and will have the chance to sleep in rooms named after Kapil Dev’s individual cricketing achievements such as 432 (his test wickets) and Four Sixes (the reason for his one, you should ask English cricketer Eddie Hemmings). 
At the smart multi-cuisine restaurant called Elevens, neighbors and arch rivals in the game, India and Pakistan, find themselves on the menu-trying to outdo each other even here, in the kebabs and meat varieties. 
North Park, Panchkula, you may not have heard of this one, and the reason is that the few people who frequent this hotel keep it a well guarded secret, situated in an idyllic location, removed from the bustle of the city, this hotel, nestling unassumingly at the foothills of the Shivalik  , is a charming and quite getway.  
North Park is a great favourite with those who know its somewhat out of the way location, peace and tranquility is very much part of the package here, as nothing but birdsong and the gush of the Ghaggar river flowing by disturb the calm, although rooms are basic yet offer all amenities; and the service is as good as it gets.
Hot Millions one of the popular restaurant in Chandigarh has defined fast food dining in Chandigarh for decades. 
The food and service aer both excellent and  their pub down under in Sector 35 captures some of the changes in the city as a younger generation seeks to shed the city’s image as a home for pensioners. 
One of the best restaurants in the city, Khyber serves finger-licking good Indian cuisine.
The ambience is rustic, in keeping with the ruggedness of the terrain after which the restaurant is named, and the food is served straight off the fire, without fancy garnishes. 
A variety of Kebab and innovative vegetarian dishes spice up the menu. 
The malai tangri kebab and palak paneer here are especially recommended. 
Caught up in the vision of Chandigarh as a modern city, people often overlook the great dhaba food that is available within the city.
Pal and Swaran Dhaba top the list for some great non vegetarian fare, especially the mutton apart from standard dhaba dishes such as dal makhni.
Another must check out is Tehsil Singh Ka Dhaba, a great favourite with locals.
Noodle bar, new restaurant is fast becoming everyone’s favourite for Oriental food and try out the many different types of noodles they can make, or simply order the plain old chill chicken, it’s all guaranteed to be delicious.  
Traditional and ceramic pottery can be found in abundance at the Kumbhar colony area, where a group of potters come together to make some simple, beautiful creations.
Sector 17 is the main shopping centre of the city, with rows of glittering showrooms. 
Where all the action is- most great restaurants, almost all big stores and some pubs and clubs are all located at Sector 17 market complex.
Most of the handicrafts available, pots and curios are conveniently sized and make for great gifts. 
The Rose Festival- a three day extravaganza, held usually in the last week of February, which brings the city of Chandigarh alive.
The flower show that puts on display hundreds of species of roses housed in the world famous Rose Garden of Chandigarh now includes music and dance performances, both classical and folk, events for children, exhibitions by local artists, photographers and craftsman and a wide range of amusements. 
The Heritage Festival was celebrated for the first time last year in October, with the aim of promoting the city’s unique gifts of ‘modern heritage’- something that has put Chandigarh on the tentative list of UNESCO’s World Heritage walk along the Capital Complex in Sector 1, highlighting  Le Corbrsier’s wonderful design and architecture.
Held in the second week of November, over three eventful days, the Chandigarh Carnival annual event has become a favourite with locals and tourists alike. 
The Chandigarh International Film Festival to be held in January 2008 is likely to showcase films from France, Hungary, Finland and Israel, apart from Hindi movies. 
Set against the backdrop of the Aravali Hills, Haryana’s special attraction is not only the now popular connect of Highway Tourism but also cultural events like the Surajkund Crafts Mela.
These are activities which have brought Haryana onto the international tourism map. 
The state’s rich green landscape offer travelers tranquil holiday option.
Criss-crossed by the National Highways, the state provides an ideal location for several resorts.
The State also boasts beautiful golf courses like the Aravali Golf Course and Highway Golf Course in Karnal.
The azure waters of Karan, Tilyar and Damdama lakes augment the lush topography. 
Acres of deciduous forests and wheat fields stretching as far as the eye can see are all an intrinsic part of Haryana.
We welcome you to Kurukshetra, the seat of ancient Indian civilization, the land where the Vedas were written. 
Where Lord Krishna gave the Gita Updesh, making action greater than the reward of though thereof. 
Sheikhpura Kothi, all marble and kitsch, plush rooms and airy terraces, this one is sure to surprise those who think Haryana is all about the mass of high-rises that is Gurgaon. 
Sheikhpura Kothi, Hansi, a two and a half hour drive from Delhi on NH 10.
Here is Trident Hilton Hotel that will make you forget that Gurgaon is a concrete jungle.
Farm stay, Haryana has been luring swish people to chuck their Guccis for a taste of farm life,   with messy buffalo rides and rustic Haryanvi cuisine.  
If you want to some pastoral pleasure, try any one of the farms that have tied up with Haryana Tourism to welcome you into this simple, blissful world.
Ibrahim Palace, imagine a somewhat imposing white palace in the mist of a sprawling garden, speckled with fountains, flowers in bloom and flitting peacocks. 
Pataudi Palace is vow a hotel, and one of the most special places to stay in Haryana. 
The spacious rooms have verandahs that overlook all the greenery that you can get used to, and the staff will make you feel royalty. 
Mhara Gaam, Rai, thinks ambience, culture, and mood; close your eyes and cross these rather kitschy gates.
Mhara Gaam, with its ethnic décor, strategically situated wells and hukkas, and traditional sit-down community meals can be charming if you keep your mind open and your luxury needs low.
I have two favourite hotels: Trident in Gurgaon for its spatial designer , and Pataudi Palace where you enter into quite another world.
Puran Singh Ka Dhaba is near the main bus stand in Ambala; try the keema and the tandoori paranthas. 
Panchrandga Pickle started 1920s by a man named Muralidhar Dhingra.
Panchranga Pickle located at Panchkula Himachal Pradesh border, GT Road.
Pachranga is a brand name that any self respecting pickle would be proud to belong to. 
Among the almost 200 varieties, the meat pickles are especially delicious.
Always popular and consistently good, Chor Bizarre Gurgaon comes with trademark interiors, the signature salad bar in a real vintage  car and finger licking delicious North-West Frontier cuisine. 
Of the many popular malls of Gurgaon, Gold Souk, which opened last year, stand out for its single minded dedication to metallic indulgence. 
The mall houses a wide range of international and Indian designer jewellery and watch brands-from kitschy to crazy, from ethnic to contemporary.
Panipat is often referred to as the handloom capital of India, and you can browse for a wide range Durries and carpets.
Panja Durries of Panipat those are truely unique.
These Durries come in vibrant colours and bold geometric patters that can add cheer to any space instantly.
When it comes to bright and festive, Bagh Embroidery is a close second to Punjab’s famous Phulkari embroidery.
You will find angular patterns and a generous does of green-what else do you expect with that name. 
Head to Ambala Cantonment area for the best Bagh dupattas and dresses and you can also try the state emporium in Delhi. 
To many the annual Surajkund Mela (in February) is the place to stock up on arts, crafts and all things indigenous, bought straight from artisans. 
Even if you make the mistake of missing the mela, check out the permanent bazaar in Surajkund where master craftsmen from across India put up their talents on show in a traditional Haat setting.
Surajkund is 8 km from south Delhi on way to Faridabad. 
Himachal is one of the oldest, most well estanlished and recognized tourist destinations in the country. 
It is one of those rare places in the world with five distinct seasons-pring, summer, monsoon, autumn and winter.
Carved out from a slice of the Western Himalayas, it holds many high mountain ranges, whose stark white peaka give the State its name-Himachal, the ‘abode of eternal snow’. 
In a relatively compact area of 55,673 sq km, the altitude varies between 350 m and 7,000 m.
Nothing chilly about its warm and welcoming people, whose hospitality knows no bounds. 
Himachal is heaven for the nature lover, with an abundance of sanctuaries, parks, game reserves, oak, cedar and rhododendron forests, and stretches of apple orchards. 
You can try your hand at a variety of adventure sports like skiing, heli-skiing, paragliding and mountaineering.
Shimla, Kullu-Manali and Dalhousie are popular town centers.
For those in search of peace and tranquility, Himachal’s Buddhist soul is alive in places like Dharamshala and Spiti.  
As rich as its natural diversity, the State’s past has handed on a legacy that comes in the form of both built and ‘intangible’ heritage.
Whatever brings you to Himachal, whether the cedar forests or the mountain peaks, trekking trails or skiing slopes, peaceful monasteries or charming towns, we hope you will find a little bit of yourself here and always return. 
Himachal id truly a destination for all seasons and for all reasons. 
The Chalets, is scenically located resort consists entirely of Scandinavian-style log huts right next to the famous nine-hole Naldehra golf course.
The rooms are clean and cheerful with all the modern comforts just this side of luxury and popular with families with kids, the resort offers a variety of activities such as trekking, fishing, riding and of course, golf.
Woodville Palace Shimla, a welcome  hotel, is a good example of turnoff the century colonial architecture in India.
Woodville Palace is offered 28 rooms spread over four acres of lush greenery.
Taragarh Palace WelcomHeritage resort is set in a wonderfully landscape garden in the beautiful valley of Kangra. 
Every thing moves at a leisurely place in Taragarh Palace but alas, the food may not be much to write home about.
Yet another delightful resort from the WelcomeHeritage group, Judge’s Court Heritage Resort spectacular white country manor is set amidst extensive litchi, plum, citrus and mango orchards.
Situated at a height of 1,800ft, Judge’s Court Heritage Resort is the best visited in winter.
One of the most luxurious heritage hotels in Shimla, The Oberoi Cecil was restored to its original grandeur a few years ago.
The Oberoi Cecil is the perfect place to stay at if you want to enjoy a winter in Shimla.
Wildflower Hall is a fairytale luxury resort set in 23 acres of virgin woods of pine and cedar at a height of 8,350ft.
Himachal is full of lovely little places, guesthouses tucked away, far from the teeming crowds.