It is said that a part of Sakyamuni's relics was placed in it and two chapels sit on both sides of the Main Chanting Hall.
The left one is devoted to Tara, the goddess who is believed to be the avatar of Avalokitesvara, a White Tara is in the middle and two Green Taras on each side.
The right chapel is dedicated to Maitreya Buddha, with a height of 11 meters (36 ft), one can find the statue of Maitreya Buddha in the middle of the chapel. 
The statues of Avalokitesvara and Bodhisattva Manjusri created by the First Dalai Lama stands near the statue of Maitreya Buddha.
The Great Courtyard of the Kelsang Temple is the place for lamas to practice and debate.
The wall around the courtyard is covered by thousands of images of Sakyamuni in different postures and expressions
the grand palace and gigantic statues, the Tashilhunpo Monastery also treasures characteristic wall paintings.
Because of the variety of shapes, resplendent colors and exquisite painting, the murals are considered to be another masterpiece of Buddhist art.
Rare sutras, thangka, china and glass services of the Ming (1368-1644) and Qing Dynasties (1644-1911) are also invaluable assets found in the monastery.
If you come across some important Tibetan festivals, such as Tibetan New Year and Dancing Deity Festival, you may enter the monastery for free.
If you want to take pictures inside the palace, please ask politely the lamas andit's easy to be lost in the grand palace, so please be careful!
The Tashilhunpo Monastery is situated at the west part of Shigatse City; you can take a walk to the monastery or you could opt to travel by pedicab.
The Terra Cotta Warriors and Horses are the most significant archeological excavations of the 20th century. Work is ongoing at this site, which is around 1.5 kilometers east of Emperor Qin Shi Huang's Mausoleum, Lintong County, Shaanxi province. It is a sight not to be missed by any visitor to China.
Upon ascending the throne at the age of 13 (in 246 BC), Qin Shi Huang, later the first Emperor of all China, had begun to work for his mausoleum.
It is speculated that many buried treasures and sacrificial objects had accompanied the emperor in his after life.
A group of peasants uncovered some pottery while digging for a well nearby the royal tomb in 1974.
Uncovered of some pottery caught the attention of archeologists immediately and They came to Xian in droves to study and to extend the digs.
They had established beyond doubt that these artifacts were associated with the Qin Dynasty (211-206 BC).
The State Council authorized to build a museum on site in 1975, when completed, people from far and near came to visit. Xian and the Museum of Qin Terra Cotta Warriors and Horses have become landmarks on all travelers' itinerary.
When completed, people from far and near came to visit. Xian and the Museum of Qin Terra Cotta Warriors and Horses have become landmarks on all travelers' itinerary.
They are replicas of what the imperial guard should look like in those days of pomp and vigor.
The museum covers an area of 16,300 square meters, divided into three sections: No. 1 Pit, No. 2 Pit, and No. 3 Pit respectively.
All sections of museum was tagged in the order of their discoveries. No. 1 Pit is the largest, first opened to the public on China's National Day, 1979. There are columns of soldiers at the front, followed by war chariots at the back.
No. 2 Pit, found in 1976, is 20 meters northeast of No. 1 Pit. It contained over a thousand warriors and 90 chariots of wood.
It was unveiled to the public in 1994, archeologists came upon No. 3 Pit also in 1976, 25 meters northwest of No. 1 Pit. It looked like to be the command center of the armed forces and it went on display in 1989, with 68 warriors, a war chariot and four horses.
Altogether over 7,000 pottery soldiers, horses, chariots, and even weapons have been unearthed from these pits.
The Terra Cotta Warriors and Horses is a sensational archeological find of all times.
It has put Xian on the map for tourists and it was listed by UNESCO in 1987 as one of the world cultural heritages.
"Ripping water shimmering on sunny day,Misty mountains shrouded the rain; Plain or gaily decked out like Xizi;West Lake is always alluring." These are the words composed by the famous Song Dynasty poet Su Dongpo (960-1127) when he compared the West Lake to Xi Zi, the most beautiful woman in ancient China.
Originally a shallow sea inlet, due to the laying down of silt this 5.68 square kilometers (about 1,404 acres) of water became the famous West Lake.
With an average depth of just five feet the lake comprises five distinct sections.
The largest part is known as the Outer Lake and it is bounded by the North Inner Lake, Yuehu Lake, West Inner Lake and Lesser South Lake.
Held in the embrace of hilly peaks on three sides, this water wonderland has been an attraction for centuries and it is small wonder that it was a favourite imperial retreat.
The lake and its environs have all the elements of a traditional Chinese garden but on a grand scale.
The natural setting of strangely shaped peaks, serene forests and springs, dense foliage and a myriad of blossoms especially in springtime are enhanced by a treasury of sculpture and architectural features.
Whatever the season, the panorama is pleasing to the eye and the nuances of light shade together with the moods of the weather present an ever-changing picture that justifiably has been described as 'intoxicating'.
A number of specific features can be singled out as worthy of particular note.
To the south of centre of the Outer Lake is a man made island known as the Island of Little Oceans, that encloses four small lakes.
From here one can view the Three Pools Mirroring the Moon when at night candles are lit in stone lanterns jutting out of the water thus creating the impression of the reflections of three moons.
The scene is truly magical on the night of the Autumn Moon Festival.
Solitary Hill Island lies between the Outer Lake and the north Inner Lake and is an ideal spot from which to admire the vista.
The nearby Two Peaks Embracing the Sky is another impressive sight, especially when crossing the lake by boat.
Near to the lake can be found the Ling Yin Temple in its woodland setting near to Fei Lai Feng (Peak Flown From Afar).
Legend has it that this limestone peak flew from India where it had formed part of a holy mountain.
The Mausoleum of General Yue Fei is a monument to the patriot who was murdered in 1141 at the behest of his archrival Qin Hui, the Song prime minister.
No visitor to the West Lake and Hangzhou can fail to learn something of this city's most famous products, namely silk and Longjing (Dragon Well) Tea.
Since the Tang Dynasty (618-907) silk products from Hangzhou have found their way all over the world
The National Silk Museum is the first Chinese national museum to be dedicated to silk culture and is the largest of its kind in the world.
A similar museum is dedicated as homage to tea. Located at the West Lake Dragon Well Tea Plantation, the National Tea Museum provides a fascinating insight into the history and production of Chinese tea.
Often referred to as the 'wonders of West Lake' Longjing (Dragon Well) tea and Hupao (Running Tiger) Fountain is each worthy of the attention of the visitor.
Another natural spectacle to be found here is the tidal bore of the Qiantang River that has enthralled people for centuries.
Overlooking the river estuary stands the 13 storey high Six Harmonies Pagoda.
Dating from 970 and built on the site of an earlier pagoda that served as a lighthouse, the name refers to the six codes of Buddhism i.e. harmony of the body, speech and thought and the renunciation of personal pleasure, opinions and wealth.
A climb to the top of the pagoda carries the reward of an impressive view over the river.
Crossing the river is the Qiantang River Bridge, is the first two-tier bridge to have been designed and built by Chinese engineers in modern times.
The other great feat of much earlier engineering is the Grand Canal, Linking Hangzhou in the south with Beijing in the north; this is the longest man-made waterway in China and surpasses both the Suez and Panama canals.
We hope that the delights of the area surrounding the West Lake will tempt you to visit them for yourself.
You can be assured that the splendid and diverse landscape will remain long in your memory as you call to mind tour sites to be found south of the Yangtze River.
West Street is the oldest street in Yangshuo with a history of more than 1,400 years.
Situated at the center of Yangshuo County, West Street has become, since the 1980's, a window of eastern and western culture and the biggest 'foreign language center' in China.
West Street is the most prosperous district in Yangshuo, and, each year, approximately 100,000 foreigners come here on their travels or to attend advanced studies.
Visitors are attracted to West Street by its unique mix of cultures.
West Street is 517 meters (1,696 feet) long and 8 meters (26 feet) wide, meandering in an 'S' along its length.
Being completely paved with West Street is a typical example of a southern China street.
West Street is greatly admired by foreigners for its simple style and courtyard-like setting.
There is a saying about West Street that 'half is village while the other half is stores'.
Because, at times, foreigners outnumber Chinese, West Street is also called 'foreigners' street'.
Don't be surprised if you hear English words spoken by elderly Chinese women, for West Street is called 'the global village'.
West Street is modern and fashionable, nearly every store has bilingual shop signs, and more than 20 stores have been opened by foreigners who have settled here.
Chinese visiting West Street may think they are in a foreign country, while foreigners come here to search for the ancient civilization of China.
West Street is a terrific place to take a rest, both physical and psychological.
West Street will drive all of your pressures and burdens away, and give you a calmer view of life.
West Street shows different faces at different times: calm and peaceful in the morning, while trendy and modern in the evening
Traveling to West Street is an experience to be with the landscape, with the people, with the soul, and with you.
Visiting West Street, you will be surrounded by an array of traditional folk and amazing international elements.
Various shops, craftworks shops, painting and calligraphy stores, backpack shops, cafes, and Chinese Kung Fu academies jostle for attention at West Street.
You may see a multitude of items, from embroidered silk cloth, wax-painted weaving, to tiny shoes worn by women before the liberation of the People's Republic of China in 1949.
On the West Street you may find bars and cafes, some run by foreigners, decorated with bamboo rafts, fish baskets, wax-painted tablecloths, and so on.
You will be tempted by foods from all over the world: ciba (a kind of Chinese rice cake) and rice noodle of Yangshuo, authentic Italian coffee, banana cake, Western style food, etc.
On the West Street ask for a cup of coffee and let the pretty scenery and dulcet music take you to a fantastic world.
Highly Recommended, typical local dish: Beer Fish-fresh fish caught from the clear water of Li River, with a delicate sauce, the fish tastes great with beer. It's a wonderful dish to stimulate your appetite.
Recommended seller: 'The Tao's Authentic Beer Fish' and 'the Older Sister of Peng's Beer Fish'.
Characteristic cafes: MeiYou Cafe: 'Meiyou' means, 'we don't have'. On the West Street.
The reason for MeiYou shop sign reflects the promise of the host: 'Meiyou warm beer, meiyou lousy food, meiyou rip-offs, meiyou bad service'.
Anne's Art Cafe: famous for its first-class food qualification, and competitive price, each dish here can be called an art.
Paris Cafe: Providing a high-class service, exquisite environment, and convenient transportations
Special tourist vehicle: Bicycle. As a saying goes: 'no bike, no Yangshuo'. Rent a bike to appreciate the elegant scenery as well as feel the air of village.
“Yangtze River Cruises" specialize in tours of China including Yangtze cruises to the Three Gorges.
We also include exploration of the breathtaking Shennong Stream, and ample opportunity to learn about the ancient Chinese culture
Come with us and start the vacation of your dreams ,“Yangtze River Cruises"
The best way to discover China - a land that is splendidly foreign and decidedly unforgettable - is by our elaborately designed cruise plans.
Your cruise, hotel, sightseeing tours and meals are all included in one price in ,“Yangtze River Cruises"
China Travel Service offers special arrangements for Classic Yangtze Packages, Splendid Yangtze Cruises and Small Group China Tours to travel anywhere in China, including Beijing, Xian, Yangtze River, Shanghai, and Tibet.
From the treeless Mountain Tanggula of Upper Qinghai, the Yangtze River winds 3,900 miles through the country from west to east.
The journey of Yangtze River Cruise from Chongqing to Wuhan includes the "Three Gorges" and is characterized by its picturesque natural scenery.
The various ports of call along the way offer great opportunities to experience our ancient cultural heritage.
Come with us and discover this special part of China, with its great humanity, beauty and time-honored history
TravelChinaGuide.com exclusively offers you deluxe Yangtze River ships on the Yangtze River with detailed ship description on face-sheet, deck plans, on-broad service, sailing dates and itineraries.
The information in our "Yangtze River Travel Essential" will help you to enjoy a smooth and comfortable trip.
It is a great tool to help you to make proper decisions on your "WHEN, WHICH and HOW" questions about your cruise. Our trouble shooting "Yangtze River FAQ's" should cover every question you might have.