Various insects and plant species are also found widely in Malaysia's rich ecology.
For those new to jungle trekking, the Forest Reserve Institute of Malaysia (FRIM) in Kepong, Kuala Lumpur, and The Malaysia Agriculture Park at Taman Bukit Cahaya in Shah Alam, Selangor and the Air Keroh Recreational Forest in Malacca are good places to learn the basics of the skill.
Seasoned trekkers can choose more rigorous trekking trails at the national parks and forest reserves.
These include Taman Negara in Pahang (one of Asia's finest preserved wild lands), Niah, Mulu and Lambir National Parks in Sarawak, Danum Valley in Sabah and Endau-Rompin in Johor.
The best time to trek in Peninsular Malaysia is during the dry season, from March till October and Nov to June, in Sabah and Sarawak.
Some parks and forest reserves may require permissions or permits before allowing trekkers in. Please refer to your tourist agent to advise you on this.
With almost 600 species inhabiting Peninsular Malaysia and about 580 species in Borneo, Malaysia is a natural attraction for bird watchers.
Due to the diversity of the habitats, there are many places with abundant bird life to choose from.
Many birds are common to both geographic areas, although some species, known as endemic species, are unique only to a certain location.
Birding activities are concentrated in three distinctive habitat types - montane forests, lowland rainforests and mangroves.
Montane forests generally occur above an elevation of around 2,952 feet, while lowland rainforests remain the most extensive habitat for over 200 species.
The Mangrove forest ecosystem is a coastal habitat where salt and freshwater environs meet with coastline fringe.
Bird life abounds at Fraser's Hill and Cameron Highlands, which feature lush green surroundings, panoramic views and hiking trails.
Located at a mangrove swamp along the west coast, the park supports 130 bird species and seasonal migratory birds.
Another interesting location, which may need more thorough planning, is Taman Negara - a dense lowland forest that is more than 150 million years old and home to over 200 bird species.
Migratory birds use Malaysia's west-coast flyway to travel to Sumatra and beyond, with peak movements in April and October.
Tanjung Tuan in Malacca is a favored spot that attracts bird watchers from all over the world, who hope to catch a glimpse of these birds.
The tropical climate of Malaysia allows bird watching to be a year round activity.
Rain usually falls heaviest from September to December in the West Coast of the Peninsular and from October to February in the East Coast, Sabah and Sarawak.
As excited as they are, bird watchers must show utmost care and respect to the birds and their habitats during bird watching sessions.
Permits from Forestry Department of various states may be needed at some bird sanctuaries.
Your travel agent or tour guide may be able to advise you on this.
Hari Raya Aidil Adha marks the conclusion of the annual pilgrimage to Mecca.
Thaipusam is spectacular festival occurs in late January or early February and is a celebration of Lord Subramaniam.
On the eve of the Thaipusam festival, a statue of the Lord is taken on procession in a chariot drawn by bullocks.
The next day, devotees carry 'kavadis' through Hindu temples amidst chanting and drumming.
A kavadi is a metal or wooden arch with elaborate decorations, which is placed on the devotee's shoulders.
Hooks or spikes from the kavadi are pierced into parts of the devotee's body.
The festival is celebrated on a large scale in Penang, Selangor and Perak.
Chinese New Year is celebrated over a period of 15 days, beginning from the 1st day of the Chinese lunar calendar.
Chinese New Year is a joyous occasion marked by family reunions, giving of red packets, or 'ang pows,' by parents to children or among relatives.
This practice, coupled with the giving away of mandarin oranges, is a symbol of prosperity and good luck for the recipients.
The Chinese New Year tradition is said to have originated hundreds of years ago when villagers in a province in China were tormented by a dragon.
To scare it away, they decorated the village in bright red and lit firecrackers.
As time passed, the coming of spring was incorporated into the celebration, hence the name 'New Year,' signifying the birth of new things.
The Chinese New Year is one of the biggest celebrations in Malaysia.
Falling on a month or so behind the western calendar, this festival is celebrated with pomp, grandeur and ceremony for almost 15 days.
Decorations in most Chinese homes include young blossoms of cherries, plums and bamboo, which symbolizes rebirth as well as flexibility and endurance.
The New Year is seen as a time of abundant food. The variety and amount of food prepared tops any other holiday time.
Among the delicacies prepared are 'nian gao', a sweet glutinous rice pudding, crispy love letters made from a batter, steamed wheat bread called 'man tou' and little meat dumplings.
The Lunar New Year is also a time for families to get together.
A unique Malaysian contribution to the local Chinese culture is the 'lau yee sang,' an exotic dish made up of raw fish, vegetables and colored noodles.
Often, the gathered family mixes and tosses this dish before consuming it, as a symbol of unity and joy.
Children have a wonderful time collecting their bounties in the form of 'ang pow,' or red packets holding monetary presents.
Chinese elders usually hand these packets out to younger family members and visiting friends.
The mandatory lighting of fireworks and firecrackers bring about fun and laughter to both the young and elderly.
Thrilling lion dance performances can be observed at homes, office buildings and shopping complexes.
The 'lion' is believed to bring good luck and prosperity with it wherever it goes.
The celebrations go on for 15 days, during which prayers are held and offerings of food and incense are made to the gods and dead ancestors.
The celebrations culminate with the 'Chap Goh Mei' festival on the 15th day when colorful lanterns are lit and unmarried women throw oranges into the sea to invoke blessings in seeking good husbands.
As with most festivals in Malaysia , people of all races visit their Chinese friends during this season to convey their good wishes.
Open houses are also held by many families, who open their homes to friends and loved ones.
The birthday of Prophet Muhammad, celebrated on the 12th of the month of Rabiulawal, is another important occasion in the Muslim calendar.
It is marked by special prayers and sermons in mosques, followed by processions and feasts.
Lord Buddha's birth, enlightenment and death are celebrated through various events, including the release of caged birds to symbolize the freeing of captive souls.
Most Buddhists observe a vegetarian diet on this day and in some towns, like Penang, a procession takes place at night.
The best time to visit Sabah and experience this occasion is from May 30th to 31st, when the Kadazan and Dusun communities offer thanksgiving for a bountiful harvest.
Highlights include a beauty pageant, cultural dances and rituals that culminate in the Thanksgiving ceremony performed by the 'Bobohizan,' or high priestess.
With a wealth of ethnic groups, the states of Sabah and Sarawak have an outstanding diversity of culture.
The biggest ethnic group in Sabah, the Kadazan-Dusun, celebrates the padi harvesting festival (the Tadau Ka'amatan) in May.
Tadau Ka'amatan is the most important celebration in the lives of this ancient tribe of Sabah. This festival, which spans the entire month of May, is an offer of thanksgiving to the rice spirits (Bambarayon) for a bountiful harvest.
The highlight of this harvest festival is a dance performed by the high priestess (Bobolian) in search of the rice spirits, whose presence is vital for a fruitful harvest.
Much fun and excitement take place and merry makers indulge in dancing, feasting, and drinking of a potent wine called 'tapai,' buffalo racing and arm wrestling.
The festivities end with the crowning of the Harvest Queen.
Similar to the Tadau Ka'amatan, Gawai Dayak is Sarawak's version of the same festival.
The Iban tribe, along with the Orang Ulu and Bidayuh, celebrate this festival at the beginning of June.
It marks the end of the rice harvest and is a resting period from the toils of the fields as well as a thanksgiving ceremony to the gods for a bountiful harvest.
The festival also seeks the blessings of the spirits to ensure a fruitful harvest the following year.
Huge banquets of traditional food are prepared and 'tuak,' a potent rice wine and a must at the festivities, is brewed.
Urban folk return to their ancestral villages to take part in the merry making and rituals.
Visitors are welcome to join in the feasting and dancing and watch the exotic cultural festivities.
Occurring throughout Malaysia from May to June, the 'Colors of Malaysia' is an entire month of culture, craft and cuisine.
Colours of Malaysia bring together activities, exhibitions and events that showcase the best of Malaysia.
Join in the festivities as the month kicks off with a parade as well as dance and music performances.
Food festivals and cultural exhibitions are also held throughout the country.
The highlight is a spectacular parade bearing the theme 'Citrawarna Malaysia,' or 'Colors of Malaysia,' held in Kuala Lumpur.
The month of June sees the colorful and reverberating Dragon Boat festival in the states of Penang and Malacca.
Dragon Boat is also known as the Double Fifth Festival, it takes place on the fifth day of the fifth moon of the lunar calendar and is deemed one of the three most important Chinese festivals.
Dragon Boat is summer festival tells of a favored Chinese scholar named Chu Yuan who served the King of Chu many centuries back.
Falling victim to his jealous rivals, he fell out of favor with the king and unable to regain the King's confidence, drowned himself in a river in the Hunan Province.
This unsuccessful attempt is apart of what the Dragon Boat festival commemorates each year with the racing of the Dragon Boats.
The boats feature the head and tail of a dragon, a mythological creature believed to rule the waters.
Once affixed to the boats, a Taoist priest performs rituals accompanied by the burning of incense and firecrackers to bring the boats to 'life.'
As an offering to the dead scholar, villagers in the early days made offerings of rice stuffed in bamboo sections and threw them into the rivers.
This custom has evolved to the present day tradition where rice stuffed with various delicacies like vegetables, nuts, beans and ham are turned into dumplings called Tzungtzu and eaten during the festival.
The race is a colorful and joyous event greatly enjoyed by all and enthusiastic spectators cheer as the race kicks off with the slow beating of drums, which increase steadily to end in a frenzied crescendo as the boats speed across the finish line.
Gawai Dayak annual Sarawak Dayak festival is celebrated in early June and marks the end of the rice-harvesting season. 
To prepare for the festival, Dayaks clean their homes and the graves of their ancestors.
On the festival's eve, family members attend a reunion during which the youngest member offers a plate of specially prepared food to his parents.
Tuak, or rice wine, is served to all and dancing is part of the merry-making.
Attired in their finest, the Dayaks offer sacrifices of livestock in return for a good harvest.
Other events that take place are war dances, cockfights and blowpipe contests.
Shop until you drop at the Mega Sale Carnival! This extravaganza is held once a year and offers an exciting range of merchandise and a host of bargains at shopping centers nationwide.
Check out the branded items, fashion wear, sportswear, leather products, perfumes, jewelry, ethnic crafts, collectibles, IT products, and other tempting buys.
If witches and devils visit our realm on All Hallows Eve, their fearsome counterparts make their trips to this region during the Hungry Ghost Festival.
If witches and devils visit our realm on All Hallows Eve, their fearsome counterparts make their trips to this region during the Hungry Ghost Festival.
Each year, during the 7th month in the Chinese lunar calendar, the Chinese community in a sense of reverence and apprehension celebrates this festival.
Join in the fun on the eve of the anniversary of Malaysia's national day.
A carnival-like atmosphere pervades on this night of mesmerizing dances, dazzling colorful fireworks display and performances by local artists, culminating in the Merdeka countdown for the raising of the Jalur Gemilang (Malaysian Flag) at the stroke of midnight amidst the hearty shouts of "merdeka."
Malaysia's national day on August 31st is celebrated on a grand scale with colorful parades, stage shows, and competitions at major towns throughout the country.