Delhi, where a empire rose and fell before the dawn of history; where citadels of emperors appeared and disappeared; a city of mysterious eternity whose old ruins proclaim a majestic and imperial past and whose present pulsates vibrantly with the ever flowing life of India. 
The eternal Jamuna bears witness to the glorious and tumultuous 5,000 year old history of Delhi. 
A history which begins with the creation of Indraprastha by the Pandavas and the transformation of this barren gift of the Kauravas into an idyllic haven.
A history which encompasses all the various kings and emperors who fixed their royal citadels here-- Indraprastha, Lal Kot, Quila Rai Pithora, Siri, Jahanpanah, Tughlakabad, Ferozabad, Dinpanah, Delhi Sher Shahi or then Shahjahanabad.
There have been at least eight cities around modern Delhi, and the old saying that whoever founds a new city at Delhi will lose it has come true every time -- most recently for the British who founded New Delhi in 1911.
The historic Purana Qila, which has stood witness to Delhi's rejuvenation, periods of anarchy, and the rise & fall of empires, brings alive history of the capital.
 Amidst the tranquility of the splendidly panoramic environs of Purana Qila, Delhi's historic and legendary past come to life. 
After Shah Jahan built Red Fort the attention of administration shifted to gorgeous palaces of the fort. 
Today the fort is open for the public but only limited area can be accessed, more than half of the fort area has been taken over by the Army.
 But even what is open to visit reminds one of the splendor and lavish life style which our rulers lived. 
Delhi has seen the death of many empires and resisted bloody attempts to eliminate her. 
 It is said that he got so much wealth from Delhi that he was not able to carry in home. 
Abdali and Taimur Lane were no different they had tried their best to demolish the city of Delhi but it was some kind of a boon which helped it to regain its lost glory each time Delhi was plundered.
Delhi was the focal point for the first war of independence in 1857. 
Though the revolt did not reach its desired conclusion, Delhi became a thorn in the eyes of the British.
 Not only in ancient times or the mediaeval period, Delhi has been the center of any activity at all times. 
As the Britishers shifted their capital from Calcutta to Delhi, all the activities during the freedom struggle were directed towards Delhi. 
Delhi also bears the marks of the freedom struggle. 
The ultimate goal of the Azad Hind Fauz during the freedom struggle was to capture Delhi and established Swaraj. 
The slogan 'Dilli Chalo' is still used by leaders and political parties when they organize any rally or demonstration. 
It was the hosting of the tricolor at Red Fort in Delhi which marked a chapter in the history of India.
One of the main markets of Delhi, Chandni Chowk was once lined with beautiful fountains, but today the place is very crowded and congested.
Chandni Chowk is located opposite the Red Fort. 
The Area has got the Digamber Jain Temple which houses the Birds hospital.
On one end of Chandni Chowk is the Fatehpuri Mosque which was erected by the wives of Shah Jahan. 
Opposite the old police station or the Kotwali is the Sunheri Masjid from where Nadir Shah ordered his troops to plunder and massacre Delhi.
The City of Shahjahanabad was the capital of Shah Jahan but little remains of that old city. 
The Old Delhi or the walled city served as the capital for many emperors. 
Today, remains of the historical city are the gates like - Kashmiri Gate, Ajmeri Gate, Turkman Gate, Delhi gate. 
Near Delhi Gate is Feroz Shah Kotla, close to this is kept the Ashokan Pillar which was brought from Meerut by Feroz Shah Tughlaq. 
Along the banks of Jamuna are located the places were the leaders and freedom fighters of India were cremated. 
The Raj Ghat is one of the most visited ghats.
 A simple square platform of black marble marks the spot where Mahatma Gandhi was cremated after his assassination in 1948. 
To North of Raj Ghat is the cremation ground of Jawaharlal Nehru named as Shanti Van. 
The cremation ground of Indira Gandhi, Sanjay Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi are also in the vicinity. The cremation ground of Lal Bahadur Shastri is nearby.
India Gate, Rajpath & India Gate - Flanked by ornamental ponds and lawns, Rajpath is host to the Republic Day Parade. 
The two secretariat buildings and Rashtrapati Bhawan on the Raisina hills are located on the two sides of this immensely broad road.
 Previously the Boat Club, besides the Rajpath, was host to many demonstrations and Rallies. 
India Gate is towards the eastern end of Rajpath.
India Gate is a 42m high stone arch of triumph. 
It bears the name of the 85,000 Indian Army Soldiers who died in the campaigns of WW1, the North-West Frontiers operations and the 1919 Afghan Fiasco.
 India Gate is surrounded by green grass lawns and trees.
Sansad Bhawan or the Parliament house is the supreme law making body in the country. 
Parliament house is the center of power and politicians decide the fate of the Indian Democracy here. 
Visitors are not allowed inside the house but when the house is in session, visitors may take permission to go inside and watch the proceedings of the house. 
The parliament consists of three halls- Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and the central hall. 
For the foreign visitors permits are given only after they obtain an introductory letter from the respective embassy.
For hotels booking in Delhi visit :- www.newdelhi-hotels-india.com 
A crafts museum is at Pragati Maidan Grounds. Open from 10am-5pm daily.
Gandhi Darshan & Gandhi National Museum Gandhi Darshan & Gandhi National Museum is across Rajghat and Gandhi Smriti is on Tees January Marg.
Humayun's Tomb - Built by the wife of Humayun, Haji Begum in the mid 16th century, and this red sand stone structure is considered to be the predecessor of Taj Mahal. 
The structure is one of the best examples of Mughal Architecture. 
Humayun's wife is also buried in the red and white sandstone, black and yellow marble tomb. 
The entry in the complex is free on Fridays.
Old Fort - It is believed that the Pandavas had built their capital, Indraprastha at the place where the old fort stands today.
 This fort, now in ruins, was the seat for administration for many emperors. 
The legendary Prithviraj Chauhan ruled from here till he was defeated by Abdali in the battle of Panipat. 
A new light & sound show is held by the Department of Delhi Tourism every evening. Timings and Tickets are available from the tourist office.
Safdarjung Tomb - The Safdarjang tomb is besides the of Safdarjang airport. 
This tomb was built by the Nawab of Avadh for his father. 
The structure is one of the finest example of architecture of its time and tells a saga of the last remnants of a dying empire.
Jantar Mantar - Few minutes walk from Connaught Place is is a strange collection of Solomon coloured structures. 
These were built by Maharaja Jai Singh and are actually an observatory. 
Though not as large as its compatriot in Jaipur Jantar Mantar at Delhi also an attraction for the tourists. 
The astonishing part of these observatories is that they can calculate many astronomical movements very accurately.
Red FortRed Fort - Built in Red Sand stone this imposing fort is 3 kms in perimeter with the height of the wall varying from 18 to 30 meters at places. 
When the Red fort was being built Yamuna used to flow on its one sides and there were deep moats on the other. 
Today Yamuna flows almost a kilometer away from the fort and the moats has dried up. 
In the evening the Delhi Tourism organizes a light and sound show which narrates the history of Delhi in context of the Red Fort.
The Lahore gate, the main entrance, has some emotions and sentiments attached with the Indian independence as the tricolor flutters on the top of this gate.
 On 15th August the Indian Prime minister addresses the nation from here. 
As soon one enters in the fort from the Lahore gate there is a small Bazzar, here all kinds of items are available. 
This Shopping arcade was known as the Mina Bazzar and was open only to women on Thursday's during the Mughal era.
The arcade leads to the Naubat Khana or the drum house where the Musicians used to play drums on the arrival of Emperors or princes.
 Just above the Naubat Khana is the Indian war memorial museum which has a rich collection of amours, guns, swords, and other items related to war.
The Dewan-i-Am or the place of public hearing had a wall paneled with marble in laid with precious stone which were removed during the mutiny of 1857. 
The Dewan-i-Khas or the Qutab Minar place for special hearing was the area where the emperor used to hold meetings with his ministers.
 Next to Dewan-i-Khas are the royal baths or the Hammams and Shahi Burj which are closed for public viewing. 
The white marbled Moti Masjid or the pearl mosque was the private mosque for Aurangzeb.
Qutab Minar - In 1199, Qutbuddin raised the Qutab Minar either as a victory tower or as a minaret to the adjacent mosque.
It is still the highest stone tower in India, one of the finest stone towers in India, one of the finest Islamic structures ever raised and Delhi's recognized landmark.
 It was completed by the Sultan's successor and son-in-law, Iltutmish. The tomb of Iltutmish, which he himself built in 1235, is nearby; its interiors are profusely decorated with calligraphy, though the dome has collapsed.
Jama Masjid - One of the Architectural gift given by Shah Jahan, Jama Masjid is one of the largest mosques not only in Delhi but in India. 
Completed in 1658 this Mosque has three gateways, Four angle towers and two 40 m high minarets, you can enter the mosque but take precaution to take off your shoes and make sure that you are properly dressed before entering. 
The Bahai Temple - Completed in 1986, the Bahai temple is set amidst pools and gardens, and adherents of any faith are free to visit the temple and pray or meditate silently according to their own religion. 
The structure is in lotus shape so it often called the lotus temple; the view of the temple is very spectacular just before dusk when the temple is flood lit.
Nizam-Ud-Din Shrine - The tomb of the famous sufi saint Nizam-ud-din Auliya is built on the way from Humayun's tomb.
 Inside the premises of the shrine is a tank which is surrounded by many other tombs. 
It is said that there was a controversy between the rulers of Tughlakabad and the saint over building this tank. 
The saint had said that the city of Tughlakabad will never flourish and so did it happen. 
The shrine also has the tomb of Amir Khusru and the grave of Jahanara, the daughter of Shah Jahan. It is worth visiting the shrine at around sunset on Thursdays, as it is a popular time for worship, and qawwali singers’ start performing after the evening prayers.
Lakshmi Narayan Temple also called Birla MandirLakshmi Narayan Temple - This temple was build by G. D. Birla in 1938. 
This beautiful temple is located in the west of Connaught Place. 
The temple is dedicated to the goddess of prosperity and good fortune. 
The temple has well grafted gardens. It is also known as the Birla Mandir.
ISKCON Temple - Completed in 1998, this is a complex of temples. Built on a hilly place this temple is dedicated to the Lord Krishna and was built by the Hare-Rama Hare- Krishna cult followers. 
This complex is elegantly build and is one of the largest temple complexes in India.
 Currently the main attraction of the temple are the Robort who enact and preach the Gita.
Chattarpur Mandir - A complex of temples called Chattarpur mandir is located beyond the Qutab Minar in Mehrauli, dedicated to Goddess Durga. 
Build in South Indian style the temple complex is spread over a large area with beautiful lawns and gardens. 