Squeezed in between Tibet and Nepal with China breathing down its neck, Sikkim is known for the unspoilt magnificence of its mountains and the warmth of its people. 
A trade-free zone, it is on the fast track to development, but has retained its natural splendour. 
Make Gangtok your base-it’s a town straight out of picture books, with thin flames of prayer wheels in the hands of lamas, and streets lined with bright pagoda roofed houses, rage of mist and cloud floating above them. 
Hire a jeep from here and explore the more remote areas of the country. 
You may need to obtain permits for some places, but it’s well worth the effort. 
From Pelling, a verdant and charming hill town in the west, you can enjoy views of the snow-capped Khangchendzonga. 
The almost mystically beautiful scenery here provides an ideal setting for some of the State’s oldest and most revered monasteries. 
Do not forget to make an excursion to the distant reaches of the north, where you will be spellbound by the dramatic, forested landscape and the flowery meadows of Yumthang. 
Get back in touch with both nature and spirituality amid the mountains and the monasteries.
Fringed by a colourful tangle of flowring plants, the 14 thatched cottages in east Sikkim’s Martam village resort (one of the five ‘heritage homes’ of the Himalayas) feature large picture windows that overlook the terraced valley and the sweep of forested mountains. 
Rooms are airy with bamboo furnishings and tiled floors. Cosy restaurant and bar.
Martam is 5 km from Rumtek; about an hour’s drive from Gangtok. 
Sonam Palgey is the best hotel in the Lachung valley, primarily because of its dramatic location by a waterfall overlooking the valley. 
It offers 10 basic but pleasant and comfortable rooms, and the restaurant serves tasty local food. 
Getting its name from the bamboo groves around it, bamboo Resort is set on 3 acres of paddy fields in the picturesque farming village of Sajong, just a half-hour drive from Gangtok. 
All the 10 rooms are colour themed according to Feng Shui principle, and afford panoramic view of the Himalayas. 
The resort prides itself on its eco friendly policies, and the restaurant serves oraganic vegetables (including preparations containing orchids, ferns and nettles).     
You could tuck into pizza from a wood-fired oven.
Kewzing Village Homestay, immerse yourself in local culture at Kewzing, a timeless Bhutia village that rests against a backdrop of magnificent mountains. 
Kewzing Village is the place to stay if you want a first-hand experience of Sikkimese rural life. 
The rooms are simple but clean and cosy, and the meals, served in the family kitchen, are tasty and wholesome. 
Activities bird watching, excursions to the monasteries dotting the rambling countryside and even working in the fields with the villagers.  
Yangsum Heritage Farm, surrounding by orchards and fields, the family-run Yangsum Heritage Farm is one of the most delightfully bucolic staying options in the north-east. 
The house was built in 1833, and retains a lovely old-world charm. 
Heirlooms belonging to the Tsechu Tharpa family still decorate the four huge rooms. 
Although the farm is only 2 bazaars, you will not know it relaxing under Himalayn alders and magnolia trees.
You can even sign up for cookery classes here.  
Originally built to houses the guests of the Chogyal royal family, the Nor-Khill (the name means ‘above of jewels’) boasts a fusion of traditional Sikkimese architecture and modern comfort. 
The Plus Hotel, with its manicured lawn, elegant rooms, wooden floors, thangka scrolls and striking dragon-motif decorations does justice to its illustrious past. 
Drop in at the bar to sample the authentic local brew and have your fill of Sikkimese delicacies at the restaurant. 
No visit to Sikkim is complete without a tumbler of Chhang, the popular local beer made from fermented millet (the word actually means ‘home-brewed’ so there are variants made from rice, maize, wheat and cassava; some taste a bit like sake).
The potent brew is traditionally sipped through a bamboo container called a tongba.
However, although chhang is the unofficial national drink, it is not ‘officially’ available. 
Ask around discreetly though, and you’ll find that every second stall stocks Chhang. 
The Sikkimese love to spice up their simple meals with piquant or hot pickles. 
Not for the fainthearted is Jhekar, a chutney made from fiery red or green peppers (called dallay) that grow in the mountains. 
Milder but with a tart flovour is lap se chutney, made of sour wild berries, while for a tangy touch; there is dho- tender bamboo shoots in mustard oil.
Also immensely popular is Chhurpi, a fermented, dried cheese prepared from cow or yak milk.
When added to soups, it thickens the liquid and gives it a pungent taste; when       pickled, it is, well, an acquired taste. Nose around for tasty, if not exactly aromatic, fish, chicken and pork pickles.
Syal Roti, this robust bread crept over the border from Nepal. With dough made from rice, water, milk and sugar, the fried pretzel-shaped rotis are served with spicy potato curry or pakku, Sikkim’s take on good old mutton curry.
Unfortunately, Syal Roti is not widely available in restaurants, but some of the posher hotels serve it.
You also stand a good chance of sampling it during festivals like Losar, the Tibetan New Year. 
Ninro is a fern that grows in the mountains, and its tendrils are delicious when sautéed with chhurpi.
A household staple, ningro chhurpi is not widely available in restaurants, but if you choose a home stay, you can usually sample it.
The liqueurs produced by Sikkim Distilleries are delicious and make great gifts. 
Go for old favourites like crème de menthe, or try spicy innovations like ginger and cardamom (Sikkim produces a large quantity of both).
The latest craze is the fragrant paan liqueur, which comes in a betel leaf-shaped bottle.
When spring comes to the hills and the flowers are in full bloom, Sikkimese cooks throw them into the soup pot, stir fry them in woks or preserve them in pickles jars.
Try the soup made of nettles, bamboo shoots and mushrooms or go for soucha, a nettle dish, in which the leaves are served with minced meat.
To experience a bouquet of flavours (literally), ask for barhey, a concoctions of rice and pickled rhododendrons or orchids.
For such dishes, it’s best to look for small stalls in rural areas. Such as the ones near Khecheolpari Lake in Yukson.
In the Gangtok, the restarant at the family-run Hotel Netuk House is a good bet.
Blue Sheep Restaurant, MG Marg has a bunch of restaurant serving popular Sikkimese dishes.
One of the best eateries here is the Blue Sheep, which serves Chinese-style Sikkimese specialties. 
Start with Gyakho, a nutritious soup that, at its most royal, can use up to 108 ingredients. 
Follow it up with some crisp beef chill fry.
All over Sikkim, steaming momos and the convenient one dish meal thukpa are irresistible.
At Gangtok’s Tibet Hotel, noodles are encountered under many misleading names, but we have never been let down by the platterful at the Golden Dragon.
The strong Tibetan influence on Sikkim’s handicrafts are evident everywhere, and it is no different with the handwoven woolen carpets that are found in almost all markets. 
The best rugs are made of pure sheep’s wool and patterned with traditional motifs in vivid vegetable dyes.
For the real deal, head to Kunphenling Tibetan Settlement in Ravangla, 65 km from Gangtok.
Thangka Scrolls, depicting Buddhist themes and symbols as well as other religious iconography, Thangka are canvas scrolls that are often framed with silk. 
Genuine thangkas employ only vegetable or mineral dyes, and each colour has its own significance; white stands for peace, gold represents enlightenment and red significance passion. 
While only Buddhist monks once created thangkas, they are now available in most handicrafts stores. 
Dragon Jewellery, although not many are aware of it, Sikkim produces some truly exquisite jewellery.
Most notable and unique to Sikkim are the ‘Dragon sets’, usually crafted from silver and gold.
Often inlaid with precious and semi-precious stones, the design essentially consists of coiled dragons on earings, pendants and rings. 
Visit Ranchandra Jewellers, Lal Bazaar, Gangtok. 
Gangtok’s lively Sunday market, Lal Bazaar is a riot of colour, and is Sikkim at its most vibrant. 
The smell of fish, spices, cheese and vegetables permeates the air, as people of various ethnic groups from different village gather to haggle, bargain and barter.
You can buy exotic condiments, dried fish, embroidered scarves and a whole lot more.
Note that since the original market is now being rebuilt, the shops have been shifted to the Children’s park temporarily. 
The Handicrafts Centre in Pelling sells souvenirs and fabrics featuring distinctive Lepcha and Bhutia weaves. 
You can pick from a variety of items, ranging from pretty appliquéd bags and brightly coloured batik jackets to hand-woven shawls and blankets.
You will also find beautifully carved wood and bamboo items, including furniture and lovely knick knacks. 
The ceremonial masks and lamps make for exceedingly attractive gifts. 
Near Hotel Pelling; in Gangtok, visit the Sikkim Art Emporium. 
Pick up carved wooden tables or Chodtses, carpets, thangka paintings and carved ritual masks that are a brilliant not o9f vermillion and turquoise blue at the government-run Institute of Cottage Industries, where over a 100 students can be seen perfecting their crafts. 
Paper handmade from tree bark is a speciality here.
A few minutes uphill from Gangtok’s main market.
With Assam, Mizoram and Bangladesh as neighbors, the tiny state of Tripura had a special place in Nobel Laureate Robindranath Tagore’s heart. 
It was here that he sojourned during the rule of Maharaja Birchandra Manikya.
A little known poet then, Tagore stayed at Kunjaban in Agartala.
Even as you walk down the Rabindra kanan today, you will feel strains of the poet’s songs filling the air. 
The stately Ujjayanta Palace, covering an area of one km, is a symbol that identifies Tripura. 
Flanked by two large lakes and a garden where a thousand flowers bloom every winter, part of the Ujjaynta now houses the State Assembly. 
Nearby are the Durga Bari and Laxmi Narayan Bari temples, where the royals still celebrate Durga Puja with great fervour. 
The Neermahal, the royal family’s summer retreat, is a hallmark fusion of Hindu and Mughal architecture. 
Seemingly shrouded in a time warp, Tripura is also a land of temple, the most famous one being the Tripura Sundari Temple at Udaypur. 
The picturesque Jampui Hills is where spring never ends.
Inhabited by the friendly Lushai tribes, this is a great escape during the summers. 
Live in the homes of the tribals and enjoy their hospitality. 
Cordial and helpful, the Tripuris also have a delicious cuisine to boast of.
 Buy their beautiful handicrafts, taste their mouthwatering food and return with a treasure trove of pleasant memories. 
Tourist lodge inside sephijala wildlife sanctuary, living amidst these tranquil surrounds will be an experience difficult to forget, or match.
At the sephijala wildlife sanctuary, humble abodes at laughable low prices offer you a window to daily life, a world of scenic vistas and exciting adventure. 
Uttarmegh lodge, this is your chance to stay in an ancient city. Unakoti, a heritage site set against the backdrop of picturesque lush green hills, is home to beautiful rock-cut carvings and stone images. 
Unakoti means ‘one less than a crore’ and it is believed that that’s the number of carving you can find here. 
According to legend, when Lord Shiva was going to Kashi along with one crore other gods and goddess, he made a halt at this location for a night. 
He asked all the gods and goddess to wake up before sunrise so they could proceed but in the morning but no one woke up on time.