Rajamangkala Aquarium is a large building located inside the Fishery Faculty, Rajamangkala Institute of Technology, Trang Campus, Tambon Mai Fat.
The aquarium has 61 displays and a number of fishponds and features freshwater and marine fish, amphibians and the most realistic model of a mangrove forest.
The Aquarium is situated approximately 30 kilometers from the city on the Trang-Sikao-Pak Meng Road (Highway No. 4046-4162) and is open daily during official hours.
Namtok Lam Plok is a large 6-tiered waterfall where visitors can see islands and the view of the mouth of Maenam Palian from the top.
To get there, take the Trang-Phatthalung Road until you see the kilometer 17 marker, turn right to Ban Ka Chong-Ban Hat Lao Road, and proceed for another 26 kilometers, finally turning left into the waterfall.
A medium-sized waterfall with 17 sub-levels, Phrai Sawan Waterfall is ideal for relaxation.
The fall has rubber boats available to take visitors on a 5-kilometer raft trip around the waterfall.
It can be reached by taking the Trang-Phatthalung Road to the kilometer 17 marker, then turning right onto the Ban Ka Chong-Ban Hat Lao Road and proceeding for 20 kilometers.
At the directional sign for the Waterfall turn left and proceed for another 4.5 kilometers.
Namtok Sai Rung, this single-level cascade waterfall has strong current that cascades from a huge high cliff.
The water turns into a rainbow as the sun shines onto it.
To get Namtok Sai Rung, take the Trang-Phatthalung Road, At kilometer 17 marker, turn right to the Ban Ka Chong-Ban Hat Lao Road and proceed for 15 kilometers, then turn left at the waterfall sign and continue for about 4 kilometers.
A new attraction for those interested in studying nature, particularly flora, Southern Thailand Botanical Garden (Thung Khai)has a botanical garden, an herbal garden, a botanical library, a plant museum, and a technical meeting center.
The most exciting activity of Southern Thailand Botanical Garden is trekking.
With its many nature trails going through a lowland jungle, as well as a forest with many interesting plant species, nature lovers should not miss this opportunity to explore the terrain.
The Botanical Garden can be reached via the Trang-Palian Road (Highway No. 404) until reaching kilometer 11 markers.
Rock climbing in Thailand is practiced wherever there are rocks-and even some places where there are not.
Clubs like the Thailand Rock Climbing Federation (Tel: 0 2373 8725, 0 2729 4773), and the Bangkok Rock Climbing Club (Tel: 0 2434 6100, 0 2435 5797) can furnish you with details of climb sites wherever you are traveling in the kingdom, including artificial practice walls in Bangkok.
Some of the best locations for rock climbing are in the central regions near Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary in Uthai Thani Province, or in the spectacular limestone mountains that run through Kanchanaburi, Phetchaburi and Prachuap Khiri Khan.
The spectacular coastal cliffs of Railay Beach in Krabi are the climbing focus of the South, with further pitches to be found on some of the islands.
Climbing is a technical sport so you should not go alone, especially if you are a beginner.
The discipline is safe if you use first-class equipment, go with an experienced guide and teacher who shows you how to practice safe climbing, and if you follow safety procedures.
As well as safety issues related to climbing, make sure you protect yourself from the sun.
It is easy to get burned if you are on an exposed rock for long periods so sunblock is essential.
Phu Wua Wildlife Sanctuary  is located in Ban Don Chik; 3 km from Bung Khla district and take a right turn for a further trip of around 6 km.
Phu Wua Wildlife Sanctuary  has an area of around 186 sq. km. or 116,562 rai, covering some part of Bueng Kan, Bung Khla, Seka and Bueng Khong Long districts, and nearly bordering Laos.
Phu Wua Wildlife Sanctuary  is around 150-300 m above sea level.
Types of forest here are mostly Deciduous Dipterocarp Forest, Dry Evergreen Forest and Moist Evergreen Forest.
Some parts of Phu Wua Wildlife Sanctuary are sandstone mountain ridges, rocky grounds and grass fields.
Namtok Tham Fun is located in Ban Phu Sawat, Tambon Nong Doen drive on Highway 212, and 7 km. before reaching Bung Khla district, turn right to go on for around 4 km.
The waterfall is encompassed by a timber forest with a scenic view of the northern Phu Wua.
A walking trail passes a rocky ground to the cascade which is seen along the long narrow channel on the sandstone cliff.
Namtok Chet Si is located in Ban Don Siat, Tambon Ban Tong, Amphoe Seka, this very beautiful waterfall, especially during the rainy season, originates from a stream of Huai Ka-am and flows along a high sandstone cliff to spread over a long line.
The falling water that hits the rocks below causes a spray of water which gives rainbow colours when seen in sunlight so came the name “Namtok Chet Si,” which means a waterfall of seven colours.
To get t Namtok Chet Si,   drive on Highway 212, and 12 km. before reaching Bung Khla district, turn right at Ban Chai Phon.
Namtok Phu Tham Phra waterfall is located in Ban Tham Phra, Tambon Sok Kam, Amphoe Seka. It is around 34 km. from Seka district.
Like other waterfalls at Phu Wua, it has water only in the rainy season.
Namtok Chanaen waterfall is located in Ban Phu Ngoen, Amphoe Seka; Originally, it was called “Namtok Tat Sanaen,” “Tat” literally means a place where water flows and “Sanaen” refers to “summit” or “excellence.” 
Namtok Chanaen waterfall has its origin from Lam Huai Sanaen. It is 100 m wide and has two tiers with an interval of 300 m.
Namtok Chanaen is a large and beautiful waterfall which has water only in the rainy season.
The path to the waterfall passes Khua Hin or a natural stone bridge of around 100 m long, where a phenomenon of water disappearing under the bridge can be witnessed.
There is another small waterfall called Namtok Bueng Chorakhe, rushing down to the pool.
Foreign tourists wishing to visit Laos from Nong Khai must apply for visas at least 3 working days in advance at,  Lao Embassy, 520/1-3 Soi Ramkhamhaeng 39, Bang Kapi, Bangkok, Tel: 0 2539 6667 or Lao Consulate General, 171/102-3 Prachasamoson Road, Amphoe Mueang, Khon Kaen, Tel: 0 4324 2856-8 Fax: 0 4224 4918 
The visa is valid for 1 month and visitors can extend for additional 2 months.
Visitors to Laos may obtain visas on arrival at the Immigration Office in Laos and are permitted to remain in Laos for 15 days.
Shuttle bus services crossing the bridge cost 20 baht per person; From the checkpoint in Laos visitors can hire a taxi to Vientiane which is 20 kilometers away and costs 500 baht.
To bring a car in and out of Laos, a document is required with a fee as imposed.
Major attractions in Vientiane are temples, museums, monuments and a morning market.
Package tours cost approximately 800-1,500 baht for one-day trip and 2,000-2,600 baht for two-day trip and the prices vary according to the number of people in a group.
Hat Chom Mani is a sandy beach on the Mekong River, 2 kilometers from town.
The beach occurs during the dry season in April; The locals and tourists enjoy a day out here.
Phrathat Bang Phuan (pagoda) is at Ban Don Mu, 11 kilometres from town on the Nong Khai-Udon Thani road, then a road on the right onto Highway No. 211 to Tha Bo for 10 kilometres.
Phrathat Bang Phuan old pagoda is 34 metres high and houses the holy relics of Lord Buddha.
Phrathat Bang Phuan pagoda underwent major renovation in 1976 because the original fired brick pagoda collapsed.
The temple still has the old pagoda, temple boundary markers and an ancient stone inscription.
Phrathat Nong Khai collapsed into the Mekong in 1847, Over the years the pagoda drifted to the centre of the river where it is seen today.
Prap Ho Monument is located in front of the old city hall.
The cremated bones of those who lost their lives in the suppression of the Ho in 1886 have been contained inside the monument which was built by an order of Luang Prachaksinlapakhom, the suppression commander, to honour the good deeds of those who sacrificed their own lives for the nation.
There are inscriptions in Chinese, English, Laotian and Thai on all four directions of the monument.
A worshipping ceremony and a fair to celebrate the monument are held every year on 5 March.
Sala Kaeo Ku museum is located 3 km. from the town of Nong Khai on the right side of the route to Phon Phisai.
Presently, Sala Kaeo Ku museum is under the care of the Nong Khai Buddhist Association.
Sala Kaeo Ku museum which looks like an open museum of religious statues was created with an inspiration of Luangpu Bunluea Surirat who built it around 1978, out of his own belief that the teachings of all regions could be mixed together. 
There are Buddha images in different attitudes, Hindu gods, Christian religious icons, as well as character figures from the Ramayana epic and folk legends in Sala Kaeo Ku museum.
Sala Kaeo Ku museum is open daily during 07.00 - 17.00 hrs. Admission fee is 10 Baht per person.
Tha Sadet is the port for local people crossing the Mekong River to Tha Duea in Laos.
There is a market for Indo-Chinese and eastern European products, as well as the provinces local goods in Tha Sadet.
Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge is the first international bridge spanning the Mekong.
Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge was built jointly by the governments of Australia, Thailand and Laos and it was opened in April 8, 1994.
Wat Pho Chai, Luangpho Phra Sai, a sacred Buddha image of the town which is respected by the people of Nong Khai, is housed here. a royal temple, located on Pho Chai Road in the Mueang Nong Khai Municipality.
This Buddha image sitting cross-legged, which was cast from bright yellow gold in the posture of subduing Mara, has graceful features.
According to legend, three daughters of the King of Lan Chang had three Buddha images cast and named each to associate with their names: Phra Soem, Phra Suk, and Phra Sai to the eldest, middle, and youngest siblings, respectively.
Originally, the three images were housed in Vientiane, in the reign of King Rama III, they were invited to Nong Khai by boat.
Namtok Than Thip is at Ban Tat Som in Tambon Ban Muang at Km. 97 on Highway No. 211, then take a left for 2 kilometres, this three-level waterfall is 30 metre-high, 100 metre-high and 70 metre-high, respectively.
Namtok Than Thong is in Ban Pha Tang at Km. 74 of Highway No. 211, 11 kilometres before arriving in Sangkhom district office and 83 kilometres from Amphoe Muang, this waterfall is 30 metres high and falls down to the Mekong.
Located at Ban Thai Charoen, Tambon Phra Phutthabat, the temple compound is spacious, clean and shady with various species of plants amidst tranquility. 
Originally, Wat Hin Mak Peng was a Dharma practice place of Luangpu Thet Thetrangsi, a famous meditation master of Isan, who initiated it as a Dharma practice centre for Buddhist monks, nuns and pilgrims.
Located in Tambon Kong Nang on the Tha Bo – Si Chiang Mai route, The villagers here have freshwater fishery as a profession.
Freshwater species of fish raised in their farms are Pla Taphian, Pla Nai, Pla Nuan Chan, Pla Yisok Thet, Pla Klet Ngoen, Pla Hua To, Pla Duk Thet, etc. Their produce is delivered for sale in Bangkok, the North and Isan regions.
Luang Pho Phra Chao Ong Tue, the large Buddha image was cast from bronze by the royal artisans of the northern city and Lan Chang.
Having graceful features, the 4 metre-high image is sitting cross-legged in the attitude of subduing Mara with a lap width of 3.29 m.
It is a holy image which has gained much respect from the peoples on both of the banks of the Mekong River.
According to a stone inscription, this image was built in 1562 by the royal command of Phra Chaiyachettha, King of Nakhon Wiang. 
The metals used included gold, brass, and silver, weighing a total of one Tue (an ancient scale of Isan) and it took seven years and seven months to finish the cast.
The province has a fair to pay homage to Luangpho Phrachao Ong Tue every year on the full moon day in the fourth lunar month.
Tobacco-making Village is along the route from Amphoe Mueang to Amphoe Tha Bo on Highway 211. The villagers grow tobacco plantations along the area parallel to the Mekong River.
Krayo Pastry-making Village is located on the route from Nong Song Hong to Amphoe Tha Bo.
Bamboo trays are seen with Krayo pastry being sun-dried along the roadsides.
Krayo pastry is used for Vietnamese food such as Popia (spring rolls) and Naem Nueang (wrap of pork and vegetables with spicy sauce).
Krayo pastry is an export product as well.
This temple is the starting point of a walk up to the top of Phu Thok, via a wooden bridge winding around the steep mountain.
The bridge was built with faith from monks, novices and villagers.
The construction of this bridge began in 1969 and took five years to complete.
This bridge is compared to a path of virtue that leads a righteous man to leave a world and enter into emancipation by their own efforts and determination.
Phu Thok is still a meditation practice centre and a place for the community’s religious affairs.
Visitors shall be calm in manner and pay respect to Phu Thok.
The bridge’s stairs to the mountain top are divided into seven sections.
Phu Thok means an isolated mountain in Isan dialect.
Phu Thok is located in Ban Na Kham Khaen, Tambon Na Sabaeng, this sandstone range stands out and can be seen from a distance.
Phu Thok consists of two hills: Phu Thok Yai and Phu Thok Noi. Previously, this area was dense woods with many wild animals.