The Sun Temple in Konark, Orissa in India was constructed sometime in the 13th century and is an excellent example of ancient Indian architecture. 
The temple architecture reflects a huge chariot with 12 wheels drawn by 7 horses. 
Narashimadeva, a ruler from the Ganga dynasty constructed this temple. 
Though all that remains of this magnificent piece of architecture is ruins, it is still an interesting pilgrimage site.
The Lingaraja Temple in Bhubaneshwar in Orissa, India is another important tourist destination that you must not miss during your temple tours to Orissa in East India. 
This great architectural specimen is one of the most grand and impressive temples dedicated to the Hindu deity, Lord Shiva in Orissa, India. 
There are about 100 holy shrines located inside this huge temple. 
The walls of this temple are decorated with sculptures that date back to the time of the Somavamsi rulers.
Another interesting historical site in Orissa that you must pay a visit to while on temple tours to Orissa is the Mukteswara Temple in Bhubaneshwar, Orissa, India. 
This ancient temple is a fascinating piece of architecture as every wall on this temple premises is intricately carved. 
Besides the above-mentioned temples there are many other temples that are worth visiting during your temple tours to Orissa in India. 
These are the Nilamadhava temple, Padmeswara temple, Kanakeswara temple, Kenduli temple and the Kosaleswara temple.
The desert state of Rajasthan, India has a rich cultural heritage and a number of rulers have ruled this region in the past and patronized artisans and have left their legacies in the form of architectural specimens such as mighty fortresses, mansions, temples and art forms such sculptures and paintings.
The site India Travel Destinations ensures that you have access to information related to tour packages and online tour booking for temple tours to Rajasthan, India. 
Some of the most popular temple tour destinations in Rajasthan, India are the Dilwara Temples, Kalki Mata Temple, Mahavira Temple, Eklingji temple and the Someshvara Temple.
During your temple tours to Rajasthan, India you must visit the Dilwara Temples located in Mount Abu. 
These Jain temples are famous for their architectural style, intricately carved and ornamented walls, ceilings, pillars, panels and doorways.
There are four important Dilwara temples at Mount Abu and these are the Luna Vashi temple, Vimal Vashi temple, Parshvanath temple and the Adinath temple. 
Of these four temples the Luna Vashi and Vimal Vashi temples are the most important.
During your temple tours to the Vimal Vashi temple you'll notice the grandeur of this Jain temple that is almost 98 feet high. 
Vimal Shah, who was a minister in the royal court of a local Rajput king, Raja Bhimdeo, constructed this Jain temple. 
The main shrine consists of an impressive image of Adinath that is cast in gold and brass alloy. 
The corridors, arches and man daps at the Vimal Vashi temple are richly and intricately carved.
The other important Dilwara temple that you must visit during your temple tours to Rajasthan, India is the Luna Vashi temple that is dedicated to the 22nd Jain tirthankar Shri Neminathji. 
The architectural design of the Luna Vashi temple is quite similar to and seems to have been adopted from the Vimal Vashi temple. 
There are about 10 halls at this ancient temple that are called the Elephant Halls; there is a marble elephant in each of these rooms.
These elephants are exquisitely carved out of white marble.
Besides the Dilwara Temples there is the Eklingji Temple in Udaipur in Rajasthan, India that you must visit during your temple tours to Rajasthan, India.
The Eklingji Temple in Udaipur, Rajasthan, India is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Shiva.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you tour booking and online reservation for tours to the temples of Tamil Nadu in South India.
Tamil Nadu is known as the temple town of the south as there are quite a few amazing architectural marvels here that were built by the several rulers who reigned in this region in the ancient times. 
Most of the temples located in the State of Tamil Nadu are dedicated to the Hindu deities Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva.
Most of these temples are magnificent examples of Indian art and architecture. 
Some of the most popular temples in Tamil Nadu, India are: Chidambaram, Sri Parthasarathy Temple, Kapaleeswarar Temple, Rameswaram, Palaniandavar Temple, Kumari Amman Temple and the Swamimalai.
Chidambaram is located at a distance of 250 kilometers from Chennai the capital city of Tamil Nadu, South India. 
During your tours to temples of Tamil Nadu, India this is one temple town that you must pay a visit to. 
The Chidambaram Nataraja Temple is an excellent example of a unique amalgamation of a number of architectural styles. 
The innermost sanctum inside the Chidambaram Nataraja Temple has idols of Lord Shiva and goddess Parvati. 
The Chitsabha inside the temple is an interesting piece of architecture. 
This shrine is built of wood and is supported with pillars that are also made of wood. 
The other fascinating and important shrine located inside the Chidambaram Nataraja Temple is the Govindaraja Perumaal.
The Sri Parthasarathy Temple is located in Triplicane in Chennai, India. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Vishnu.
The Kapaleeswarar temple is located in Mylapore located in Chennai, India. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Shiva. 
This temple is of special significance as it finds a mention in ancient devotional hymns sung by the Hindu Nayanmars sometime in the 7th century. 
This ancient temple was constructed almost a thousand years ago though historians are not very clear about the exact age of this ancient temple.
During your tours to the temples of Tamil Nadu, India you may visit Rameswaram that is a tiny island that is located at a distance of 160 kilometers from Madurai in Tamil Nadu, India. 
Rameshwaram is an important Hindi pilgrimage.
According to legend Hindus who undertake a pilgrimage to Kashi should end by bathing in the sacred waters near Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu, India. 
Another important pilgrimage in the region is the Dhanuskodi that is located in Rameshwaram. 
The Palaniandavar temple is located at Vadapalani in Tamil Nadu, India. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Subramanya. 
The local people worship Lord Subramanya as Pazhani Andavar.
The Kumari Amman Temple in Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, India is one of the most important temple sites in South India. 
This shore temple is famous for a legend according to which the temple deity did a penance to win Lord Shiva's hand in marriage but since she could not marry him she vowed to remain a virgin all her life and thus the name 'Kumari' Amman Temple.
Swamimalai is one place that you must visit during your tours to the temples of Tamil Nadu in South India. 
This temple is supposed to be one of the six abodes of the Hindu deity Lord Subramanya. 
This ancient temple has been constructed atop an artificial hill and a flight of steps leads up to the main temple. 
The temple architecture is such that the temple complex has 3 gopurams and 3 praharams.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details of temple tours to Uttaranchal, India. 
There are several temples of interest in the Uttaranchal that you may visit during your temple tours to the region. 
Some of the interesting places that you may visit during your temple tours to Uttaranchal are the Sidh Peeths.
 People visit these Sidh Peeths regularly to revere the deity. 
One such temple is located at Sangura in Bilkhet in Uttaranchal in India. 
The Sidh Peeth located on the banks of the River Nyaar that is popularly known as the Narad Ganga is a popular temple and is dedicated to the deity Ma Bhuvneshwari. 
It is a popular belief that this deity grants all your wishes.
The Mata Murty temple located at the Mana Village in another temple that you must visit during your temple tours to Uttaranchal, India.
Gorakhnath Temple, an ancient pilgrimage destination, is dedicated to Guru Gorakhnath. 
The other tourist places in Haridwar include Kalika Temple, Kankhal Temples, Tapkeshwar temple dedicated to Lord Shiva.
Bagnath Temple, Bageshwar gets its name form this ancient temple of Lord Shiva set in the heart of the town. 
According to popular legend, sage Markandey stayed here and this sacred place was visited by the Hindu deity Lord Shiva in the disguise of a tiger. 
This sacred shrine was constructed during the reign of the Chand dynasty and according to popular legend absolutely no one could establish the Shivlinga inside the temple sanctum and finally one Manorath Pandey of Palayn village went on penance and succeeded in installing the Shivlinga within the temple sanctum on the festival of Shivratri.
 Ever since a huge fair is held at this location every year on the festival of Shivratri. 
Pilgrims from all over the country come to this shrine on temple tours, especially during the festival of Shivratri.
There are a group of temples dedicated to several Hindu deities. 
The main shrines among them are the Hanuman temple, Kalika temple, Panchnam Junakhara, Thingal Bhairav temple and the Vaneswar temple.
Chandika Temple, this beautiful shrine of Goddess Chandika attracts large number of devotees during the holy Navratras.
Shri Haru Temple, this important shrine lies at a distance of 5 kilometers from Bagheswar in Uttaranchal in North India.
 It is a popular belief that the temple deity grants wishes to all those who pray to the deity with complete devotion. 
A huge fair is held here every year on the occasion of Vijaya Dashmi.
Gauri Udiyar, this sacred site is one place that you must visit during your temple tours to Uttaranchal in North India. 
This temple is located at a distance of 8 kilometers from Bageshwar and is popular for a large cave that enshrines idols of the Hindu deity Lord Shiva.
Varanasi is supposedly one of the oldest Indian cities and is known for its Ghats and ancient temples. 
This ancient religious town is known as Kasi that signifies the age-old Hindu belief that this was the place where rays of light fell for the first time after creation.
 Some of the ancient temples that you may visit during your temple tours to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, India are the Kashi-Vishwanath Temple, Durga Temple, Annapura Bhavani, Laat Bhairava and the Sankata Devi Temple.
The Kashi-Vishwanath Temple is also known as the Golden Temple and is a popular religious tourist destination. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Vishveswara Shiva. 
The original temple is said to have been destroyed by the Mughal ruler Aurangzeb who constructed a mosque on this site. 
Ahalya Bai constructed the existing temple in the year 1776.
Another tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, India is the Durga Temple. 
This ancient temple is popularly known as the Monkey Temple as the temple area is infested with several monkeys. 
This ancient temple was constructed in the 18th century. 
This ancient temple has been constructed in the North Indian Nagara architectural style. 
This ancient temple is located at a distance of 4 kilometers from Godaulia in Varanasi, India.
The Annapura Bhavani temple is located near the Vishavanatha Temple in Varanasi, India. 
The temple has a small sanctum where the idol of the main deity is kept. 
There is a gold idol of Annapoorna, the deity of the temple located within the temple premises. 
The idol is shown to be carrying a cooking pot that signifies the fact that the deity is the goddess of sustenance and prosperity.
Laat Bhairava is an image of Bhairava carved on a pillar that is encased in copper and is covered with vermilion. 