Indian Travel Destinations arranges for tours to Coorg, which is another of those lesser-known Hill stations in India ensconced amidst the flowing tracts of river Cauvery.
Tours to Coorg as a lesser-known Hill Station in India is all set to razzle-dazzle a wary soul when he embarks on a tour to Coorg, a lovely Hill Station in India. 
A Tour to Coorg makes one visit the Brahmagiri Tank that is the place where river Cauvery drains itself and thus it is a sacred place, which becomes red with vermilion smatterings on religious occasions.
It is understood that Goddess Cauvery graces this Hill Station in India, Coorg for a revenues with her kith and kin. 
Other places of interest include the Islamic styled Tombs and minarets of Dodaveearaja and Lingaraja. 
These constructions are very ancient in their origin and are quaint by the presence of minarets with Nandi Bulls perched atop the minarets.
It also includes carved, gothic windows, which are home to different manifestations of Lord Shiva in Coorg, a beatific Hill Station in India.
Indian Travel Destinations also arranges for tours to the grand Abbi falls. 
Abbi falls, homed in this Hill Station in India, emanate from the rocky and moss strewn heights from amongst the Hills exposing oneself to the spray in this Hill Station in India, which is a memorable experience.
Indian Travel Destinations incorporates information on a packaged tour to Coorg coupled with the needed information for tourists to avail of the golden opportunity to travel and discover for themselves the delights of this Hill Station in India.
Opens up new channels of opportunity through which tourists and the willing travellers alike can go ahead in their odyssey to discover the unheard of charms of Dalhousie one of the most sought after Hill Stations in India in Himachal Pradesh. Dalhousie as any tour to the eminently seeable Hill Station in India would reveal brings to fore the old era of British charm and the related suave sophistication.
Dalhousie in line with the British era elegance and stateliness of Shimla is too worth a watch just for the sake of experiencing the hallowed past of the British era.
Indian Travel Destinations too opens up Dalhousie the historical Hill Station in India to a veritable mix of tourists through its tours to Dalhousie.
Other places of interest to tourists are of the order of Lakshminaryan Temple the vast Chamba Chaugan and the curator's pride Bhuri Singh Museum.Chamba Chaugan is well known for its size greenery and the fact that it remains the venue for most of the festivals and fairs of Dalhousie a gem of the Hill Stations in India in Himachal Pradesh.
Dalhousie the pride of Himachal Pradesh remains a much sought after Hill station in India as a honey mooner's destination. 
While talking of Dalhousie one must not fail to mention Khajiar which is a big hit with the tourists in Himachal Pradesh as a popular Hill Station in India.
In the mundane sense of the term Khaijiar is a large lake akin to a field which is most of the time more than half empty and surrounded by snow from all the directions.
Indian Travel Destinations organizes tours to Darjeeling which is a favored Honeymoon Destination in India to be explored and savored by honeymooners in India.
 Honeymoon in Darjeeling can be an experience to be cherished for a whole lifetime courtesy its natural beauty and refreshingly poignant scenery.
As a much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India, Darjeeling is home to a multifarious variety of scenic places and natural beauty. 
Honeymoon is a period of exploration of the selves and the life partner, which requires a retreat far away from the maddening crowds, and the cacophony of the day-to-day life.
 If these are the qualifications for commissioning an ideal odyssey into one's private confines, then Darjeeling very much qualifies as the Honeymoon Destination in India which can get rid of all privations of practical life very much to the glee of the honeymooners in India.
Honeymoon in Darjeeling is punctuated by several places worth more than a singular visit.
 The Highest point in Darjeeling, our idyllic Honeymoon Destination in India is, Tiger Hill, which is 11km away from Darjeeling and next door to Ghoom.
Tiger Hill at its commanding heights provides the honeymooner in India with a panoramic view of the heights in Kanchaenjunga and a mention must be made of the Sanchen Lake which is the sole source of domestic water for the denizens of Darjeeling. 
 Sanchen Lake positioned in Darjeeling, as the ideal Honeymoon Destination in India is a delight to behold and sense for the honeymooners in India.
Himalayas come up prime in the list of eminently see-able sites as far as the Hill Stations in India are concerned. 
The Young Himalayas as they are called harbor of the Doon valley and the small but exceedingly beautiful Dehradoon town lying in its womb, which is talked of as an epitome of natural beauty as far as Hill Stations in India, is concerned.
Indian Travel Destinations, the tour guide are guiding the well- inclined tourists and interested travelers to a package tour of the breathtakingly beautiful town, Dehradun, a proud Hill Station in India, Utaranchal. 
An Indian Travel Destination sponsored tour to Dehradun can be a rejuvenating and reenergizing stint for a tired pair of legs or for an overworked executive.
Indian Travel Destinations accounts for a package tour to Dehradun, which shares many features of significance with other Hill Stations in India, Uttarnachal. 
A tour to Dehradun would reveal that it is located in the picturesque Shivalik valley and also happens to be the capital of Uttaranachal State, which abounds in other Hill Stations in India. 
A tour to Dehradun would reveal that it boasts of allurements of the order of Tapekeswar Temple, Rajaji National Park and Robbers cave whose unique attraction is serving as a picnic spot in this Hill Station in India, namely, Dehradun.
The word Dehradun too has a lot of meaning attached to it. 
The term Dera refers to "camp" and Dun points to "a valley".
As a Hill Station in India, Dehradun is also home to the famed schools of the order of Doon School and Welhams as elite centers of learning in India Apart from being a much sought after Hill Station in India, they qualify Doon valley to be a star class educational center.
A tour to Dehradun would also reveal that this enchanting Hill Station in India also stands to host the respected Forest Research Institute, Wadia institute of Himalayan Studies and a branch of ONGC, which makes it a Hill Station in India with a difference.
Indian Travel Destinations organizes tours to Goa as a prominent Honeymoon Destination in India for the aspiring honeymooners in India and abroad. 
Goa beaches are famed all over the World for their pristine charm and the golden sand like appearance of some of the beaches are similar to the golden sand of the mythical "Keelavi Beach" of Phantom, the caped comic character who celebrated his own honeymoon with his better half, Diana Palmer, in the golden Beaches of Kelawi, in the middle of tribal dwarfs-men.
A dip in the Arabian Sea in the beaches of a gothic Goa can be a memorable occasion for some of the honeymooners in India who visit Goa as a premier Honeymoon Destination in India. 
The first and foremost in the list of beaches is the Anjuna beach which can be the source of immense pleasure and satisfaction for honeymooners in India with its flea market and the wild parties.
Honeymooners in India in search of a quiet, walk of solitude down one of the beaches can opt for the quieter version of the coastline in the form of the famous Baga Beach, which is famed for its slightly more picturesque Goa. 
It is located in the lee of a rock and that too, in a wooded part of one of the most favored Honeymoon Destinations in India out for a Honeymoon in Goa.
Indian Travel Destinations helps out honeymooners in India who are in search for a real taste of the Goan life and its people. 
It is here that water sports and feni, the typical locally brewed wine flow add nauseaum and make the honeymooners in India feel one with the true spirit of Goa. 
Cruises too form part and parcel for the higher end honeymooners in India.
 All this qualifies Goa as a favored and much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India. 
It was the Portuguese who first colonized Goa and they initiated the rich tradition of Church Architecture in Goa, which goes on to make Goa into a major Honeymoon Destination in India for honeymooners in India. 
The Baroque style ruled the roost in Goa which amounts to an overwhelming stress on intricate glasswork, details and wooden work. 
Honeymooners in India can very well afford to explore this second and lesser-explored facet of Goan beauty for a Honeymoon in Goa as a Honeymoon Destination in India.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details regarding tours to historical monuments in Gujarat in West India. 
There are quite a few interesting places to visit in Gujarat, India.
Some of these are Lothal, Hriday Kunj, and Sun Temple at Modhera, Bardoli, Kirti Mandir and Dandi.
Lothal is one of the most important historical sites that that must pay a visit to during your tours to historical monuments in Gujarat, India.
 A proper Harrappan settlement was excavated by archeologists at Lothal that is located quite close to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, India. 
These prehistoric remains are of great interest as they give us a picture of ways and lifestyles of the people who lived in the past. 
It is believed that the Harrappan civilization flourished for more than 500 years in the Gujarat region, India. You can see well planned and organized city ruins, with rows of houses at Lothal.
Hriday Kunj is one of the important historical sites in Gujarat as it was here that Mahatma Gandhi initiated his practical experiments with respect to a nonviolent Satyagraha and freedom struggle for the country. 
It was at this ashram that Gandhiji began his salt Satyagraha.
This ashram was named Hriday Kunj, as it was a haven for the so-called untouchables who were addressed as Harijans by the Mahatma. 
The word 'Hari' stands for God and 'Jan' stands for People therefore the word Harijan meant 'the people of God'.
There is a vast prayer ground at this ashram that has its own historical importance.
The sun temple located at Modhera in Gujarat, West India was constructed during the rule of the Solanki ruler, Bhimdev I.
This famous historical monument is in ruins but still warrants a visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region.
This temple is considered to be an example of the excellent architectural skill and acumen of the craftsmen of ancient India.
There are 12 images of the Sun God that have been sculpted in the Iranian style and the temple has been constructed in a way so that it faces the east and as a result Sun rays during equinoxes fall directly on the main seat of the temple deity.
This huge temple complex comprises of a Sabha Mandap, Prasad and a Kund. 
There is an underground cell in the temple premises.
During your tours to historical monuments in Bardoli in Gujarat you must visit the Bardoli Satyagraha Ashram located in Surat in Gujarat, India. 
The historic importance of this place stems from the fact that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel began his first Satyagraha in the year 1928.
Kirti Mandir is a national monument, as it happens to be the birthplace of Mahatma Gandhi.
 This place has some religious importance, as it is also the birthplace of the legendary character Sudama, who was supposed to be Lord Krishna's best friend.
This house has a lovely prayer hall and a huge library that contains the choicest of books.
During your tours to historical places in Gujarat, India you must visit Dandi that is a tiny place on the seaside. 
This place became famous when Gandhiji led a huge procession to this place and broke the salt law of the British government as an act of Civil Disobedience Satyagraha in the year 1930.
Tours to historical monuments in Gwalior, India with the site India Travel Destinations can be a great learning experience apart from the thrill that you experience when visiting monuments that are associated with true stories of power, glamour and bravery.
Some of the commonly visited historical monuments in Gwalior, India are the Gwalior Fort, the Sanchi stupas, Udayagiri caves, Teli Ka Mandir and Tansen's Tomb.
The Gwalior Fort is about 1000 years old and is perhaps one of the most imposing monuments in the Gwalior city.
 This massive fortress is located on top of a sandstone hill and has been controlled by rulers from several dynasties such as the Mughals, Tomars, Britishers and Scindias. 
This huge fort has huge battlements that surround palaces, massive water tanks and temples.
During your tours to the historical monuments in this area you find that the walls of the Gwalior Fort give way to the steep slopes. 
This fort has a special historical significance as it was from this particular fortress that the Rani of Jhansi and Tantiya Tope fought for the Indian independence.
During your tours to the historical monuments in Sanchi that is located at a few kilometers from the city of Gwalior you can visit the historic Buddhist stupas at Sanchi, India. 
These stupas, temples, monasteries and pillars date back to almost the 3rd century B.C.
A Chunar sandstone pillar fragment is located near the Stupa that has the world famous Ashoka edict that is popular among the tourists as it is supposed to be a warning to the Buddhist monks against any fracture in the Buddhist community.
This famous Stupa is known for its massive gateways that were constructed by the rulers of the Satavahana dynasty.
The special feature of these gateways is the fact that the carvings on these depict events from the life of the Buddhist saint Lord Buddha and anecdotes related to the spread of Buddhism.
You may also visit the tomb of the famous singer Tansen's tomb, Tansen was considered to be one of the nine jewels of the Mughal Emperor Akbar's Court.
Indian Travel Destinations arranges for tours for honeymoon in Kullu Manali, which is a prominent Honeymoon Destination in India for the benefit of honeymooners in India. 
Kullu Manali as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India is a place gifted with picture postcard beauty with the attendant wooded environment and the whispering streams to be savored by honeymooners in India.
Kullu Manali, as a popular Honeymoon Destination in India is a jewel in the itinerary of Hill Stations in Himachal Pradesh.
 Places of interest for the starry eyed and moon gazing twosomes are multifold in Kullu Manli, which is a favored Honeymoon Destination India for honeymooners in India out for a memorable Honeymoon in Kullu Manali.
Kullu valley is a larger entity with Manali nestled in the valley and intersected by a gurgling stream of River Beas running amidst the town.
 Manali town is a romantic's delight nestled comfortably between the Dhauladhar and the Pirpanjal mountain ranges. 
The natural and scenic delights on the platter before the honeymooners in India in this blissful and surreal Honeymoon Destination in India are there to be cherished for years to come once the sojourn ends like whiff of wind. 
It is for no small reason that Kullu Manali has earned the sobriquet of, "Valley of Gods".
Rohtang Pass is another picturesque track which can also serve as another favorite jaunt for the newly weds out on a tour of eternal self-discovery and satisfaction. 
The Rohtang as a part of a Honeymoon Destination in India can enthrall the honeymooners in India with its vast natural expanses and rolling meadows.
Rohtang Pass also happens to be the entry point to the Lahual Spiti Valley, another beatific locale, which is home to the Sonapani Glacier for the benefit of Honeymooners in India in Himachal Pradesh. 
The festive Kullu Darabar held in the holy month of autumn is another key attraction serving as an idyllic Honeymoon Destination in India for a complete Honeymoon in Kullu Manali in Himachal Pradesh.