In a quaint Goan home painted an unusual green and blue, Camelot sells home furniture spanning classic to contemporary, arty curios, cool footwear, silver accessories and old religious scrolls and prints.
Sosa’s : this chic boutique is set in a beautiful Goan home overlooking the Mandovi river.
Sosa’s sells fashion by hip, young designers such as Sabina singh, Malini Ramani, and Savio Jon.
Held every Wednesday, Anjuna’s flea market is a festive mix of authentic handicraft and fun Kitsch at throwaway prices (if you haggle).
People have been known to come away with antique chairs and even bikes, but you are most likely to find colorful beads, sarongs, t-shirts, and funky jewellary in Anjuna Flea market.
Don’t miss the snake charmers, the juggling acts and the Gaujarati Mehandi artists in Anjuna flea market and even if you don’t buy anyhting, visit to soak in the electric atmosphere.
There is something for every one – Acron Arcade for Yamini placements and scented Auroville candles; the Tibetan market in Baga and Calangute for turquoise necklaces and silver accessories for antiques; and the quirky monsoon Heritage for unique shell – encrusted tables.
Mahatma Gandhi’s Gujarat is a land of extraordinary zeal and exciting celebrations.
Be it work or festivities, Gujaratis have always shown great vigour and elegance.
Gujarat’s exotic wildlife, imposing mountain ranges religious abodes and vivacious cultural centers in Gujarat, enthrall one and all. 
The rich culture of kutch takes you through an amazing journey of infinite colors and creativity. 
The wildlife and bird sanctuaries at Gir, Adipur and Nalasasrovar, and tha marine sanctuary of Pirotan thrill you with nature’s majestic creations.
The picturesque sea side of Ahmedpur, the lovely hills of Saputara and the Dang forests are other examples of nature’s blessings on Gujarat.
The sacred places of Ambaji, Somnath and Dwarka take you on a unique spiritual experience.
The heritage sites of Dholavira and Lothalare testimonials of an ancient civilization that once prospered.
 A holiday in Gujarat is also defined by the traditional hospitality that’s ingrained in Gaujarati culture, and Gujarat also offers you a platter of mouthwatering delicacies apart from many other facilities to make your stay pleasant.
More than a dozen heritage hotels give you a glimpse of the abode of the kings. 
Set in atmospheric old havelis and palaces Gujarat’s wonderful selection of heritage hotels will make you feel just like the royalty.
The huge estate of the impressive Viajy Vilas Palace in Mandvi features a private beach, rigged with charming Raj theme tents.
Go for a seimo the sea, eat fresh seafood barbecued on the beach and enjoy the gorgeous sunset from the historic pavilion.
An imposing 19th –century NilamBag Palace set in vast, lush grounds, this heritage hotel boasts Burma teak furniture, crystal chandeliers and Belgian-cut mirrors. 
Hotel Nilambag Palace also offers excursions to th Jain temples in Palitana and the black buck sanctuary at Velavadar nearby.
Formerly the guest house of the Maharajas of Gondal this late 19th century building known as Orchard palace is set in the lush grounds of Huzoor Palace, where the owners keep their extensive collection of vintage cars.
The huge high ceilinged rooms are decorated with period furniture and antiques, but you can also stay in a royal rail saloon, featuring elegant wood paneling and porcelain artifacts.
Near the entrance of the little Rann of Kutch wild sanctuary, the safari resort, Rann Raiders is imaginatively designed and comprises cottages resembling the village houses of Kutch and Saurashtra.
The Rann Riders Resort has a barbecue pit where fish and shrimps, caught from the small private lake, are grilled for your buffet dinner.
During the day, head out for an exciting open-jeep safari across the little Ran of Kutch with a local guide.
Surrounded by trees and run by erstwhile Nawab and Begum of Balasinor, this dignified old house called Garden Palace is elegantly furnished with antiques.
The owner take pride in their hospitality and their food, with specialties from Nawabi kitchens of Junagarh, Radhanpur, Palanpur, Balasinor and Cambey gracing the set lunch and dinner menus.
Dholklas and Gujarati thalis are most famous, but try fiery Kathiawadi curries, Parsi cuisine and yes, delicious meat dishes too.
One of the beat places for Gujarati food in Surat, the Bahthvari Garden restaurant specializes in authentically prepares Kathiawadi and Marwari thalis with a bit of Punjabi and, as their website aptly points out, “Chinese” thrown in.
The food is served in attractive bronze thalis, with bowls and glasses to match, So, relax in one of the charming thatched pavilions, and let the traditionally attired waiters cater your every whim.
Gujarat’s very own take on antipasti, farsans are steamed or fried items served as snacks, starters or accompaniments in every Gujarati restaurant.
Most likely to make up a platter are khandvi, a type of chickpea pasta ; dhokla, a savoury cake made from a batter of ground rice and dal; and muthias chickpea kebabs.
Look out for some of the more exotic preparations including paatra patervalia colocassia leaf stuffed with spiced chickpea paste and handvo, a baked chickpea and lentil cake with grated pumpkin or bottle gourd.
A crisp ready-to-eat wheat flatbread khakhra is immensely popular in Gujarat, where it serves as a snack or as substitute for rotis, eaten with vegetables or chutney.
In the Kathiawadi peninsula, better known as Saurashtra, the food is strong on chillies and garlic, and unlike most Gujarati Food, does not use much Jaggery.
A typical Kathiawadi thali would include sec tamata nu shaak (tomato curry with sev) gantian u shaak (a crisp fried flour snack cooked in a curry), baingan bhartha, lasaniya bataka, (potatoes in delicious garlic flavoured gravy) and paanchkutiya shaak (a curry made from a mix of vegetables).
Mop all it up with bajara or jowar rotis, with a generous dash of hot garlic chutney and end your feast with thabdi, a type of milk halwa.
Kathiawadi thali is highway staple – Chotila, a small town on Ahmedabad – Rajkot highway is famous for it.
Before you embark on a sightseeing tour of the Gondal, stop for a while at the bhajiya or pakoda shop near the railway station – these fried delights are to die for.
The ‘darbar’ bhajiya platter coprises seven different deep fried batter - coated vegetable fitters with dips and accompaniments like pickels, chutneys and chopped onions.
For fantastic Gujarati food, in a wonderfully ambient setting, look no further than Rajwadu, an open air restaurant with a colorfully rustic courtyard.
Sit out on charpoys while watching the nightly folk dance performances, before relaxing over dinner in cosy balcony like sitting areas around water courses.
Gujarat is known for its somewhat puritanical cuisine, but head into the winding galis from the old city’s Teen Darwaja, and you’ll find the most delicious, most delicious, most rebelliously non-vegetation treats in the state.
Ask any rickshaw driver to direct you to Bahtiyar Galii where rich aroma of grilling meat permeates the air.
Cooks known as Bahtiyaras, fry mutton, lamb, liver, fish, bheja, and chicken in their signature masalas.
A lovely village themed restaurant that opened in 1978, Vishala is an integral part of Ahmedabad’s tourist map.
Plan to spend a few hours in Vishala – starting with the unique utensils museum (it’s a lot more fun than it sounds) followed by juice and farsans on charpoys under the thatched roof.
Enjoy puppet shows, folk dances, and rural astrology before sitting cross- legged to dine on a sumptuous meal served on a leaf platter, with accompaniments in terracotta bowls.
In Vishala after dinner, do as the village elders, and puff at a clay hookah in the courtyard.
Often eaten with the thick malai, Surat’s favourite confection is the naan khatai, an irresistible, flaky biscuit.
Savoury Kharis are also popular, layered puff biscuit that will melt in your mouth.
It is best to buy naan khatai and savoury kharis from Surat’s most famous bakery : Ditvala on Makkai Bridge, Nanpura.
Surat’s greatest contribution to the Gujarati food is undhiyu, a mix of green vegetables, gourds yam, papadi and muthiya roasted in a pot.
Usually available in winter months, the matka undhiyu is most flavoursome, made by firing an upside down earthen pot.
Just an 8 km drive from Mumbai, Udvada, barely more than a village, is home to the deeply revered Iranshah fire temple, making it an important Zoroastrian pilgrimage site.
And while the sacred fire burns, the hearth keeps up – this place is one of the India’s best destinations for authentic Parsi food.
What you will get in Udavada are – dhansak, cutlets, bhaji dana ghosht, fish or prawn pahtio, gajjar mewa achar, sago wafers, patra mach, saas machi, kadi made with til an khas, mava boi, and many other sweets.
 Complete meal is served at many local restaurants, but atypical Gujarati thali includes farsans, spicy curries or dry vegetables, kadi and kathore, a curry with either sprouted mung, channa or kidney beans.
Accompanying sweets in Gujarati thali are shrikhand, basundi or barfi.
At the end of the meal, chew on an array of mukhwas, delicious mouth freshener.
Simran in Ahmedabad has brought the streetside tawa cuisine in comfortable setting.
Simran’s tawa tiger prawns, gurdha kaleji, mutton masala, tawa kheema, sheek kebabs, and paneer tikkas are well-known, but for a truly royal feast try the shahi raan, roasted leg of lamb. 
Exquisite embroideries and colorful prints make up the fabric of life in Gujarat, but there are many other delightful things to buy.
Synonymous with the village of Sankheda, about a two-hour drive from Baroda, the lacquered furniture of Gujarat is made from rounded wood and painted in brilliant maroon, vermillion green, and brown, with a dash of silver or gold enhancing their enchanting luster.
Brighten up your space with distinctive jharokas settees and beautiful swings.
Besides Sankheda , the villages of Kutch and Saurashtra,also produce beautiful lacquered furniture. 
The district of Kutch is renowned for the variety and quality of embroidery.
Head to the town of Bhuj to shop for these exquisitely worked fabrics and to appreciate the range of techniques and the stitches used by the various tribes in the region.  
You can pick up cholis,  table cloths, bedspreads, bags and wall hangings – choose from the geometric and floral motifs of the Ahirs, the dedicate mirror studded chainstitch of Jats, the bold mirror work creation of the Rabari cameleers and much more.
To watch the skilled craftspeople at work, head to the village of Sumrasar Sheikh, less than an hour’s drive from Bhuj.
Sumrasar Sheikh is home to the Sodha Rajput weavers, who specialize in soof embroidery, characterized by bold abstract designs, realized in the most dedicated stitch.
It is also worth it to spend a day or two touring the villages of the Banni region – Hodka, about 60 km from Bhuj is especially well known.
In Hodka you can purchase gorgeous silk floss embroidery, embellished with mirror and beads.
You can buy most types of Kutch embroidery from retail outlets of NGO Kala Raksha in Sumrasar Sheikh.
The pride of small town of Patan, the Patola silk sari is the result of a precious and increasingly rare art that has evolved over many centuries. 
The Patola silk saris are woven using the elaborate process, lasting many months, known as double ikat technique.
Double ikat technique a painstaking exercise involves tie – and – dying the threads according the pattern of the sari, before setting them loom. 
Both the warp and weft threads are tie – and – dyed in the final color giving the patola its brocade like richness, and also making the sari reversible.
Depending on the intricacy of the pattern Patolas can cost anything from Rs 50,000 to more than two lakhs.
Although the purists would agree that they’re well worth the high price, single ikat version made in Sayla, Somassar and Rajkot are available at much lower price
Bandhani is an intricate and time consuming process of tie – and – dyeing fabrics, this process takes six months to a year for some saris, and even the simplest patterns can take more than a month.
Although Kutch and Wadhawan also produce striking bandhani fabrics, Jamnagar is the best known for it.
It is said, and not without truth, that the richness and color fastness of the fabrics dyed in Jamnagar are without compare.
Limda Lane and Darbargadh markets are sotted with good shops, but visit Vanza Bandhani shop in Indraprasth Market for the best designs.
With a huge tribal area stretching along its borders with Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, it is little wonder that Gujarat known for it’s beautifully crafted Terracotta handicrafts.
Terracotta is an art from perfected by tribes across west India.
The most unique items are terracotta horses and other animistic figures made for tribal shrines.
Poshina village (180 km from Ahmedabad) near Ambaji in northern Gujarat is famous a being home to the Gujarat’s best terracotta artisans.
Terracotta utensils and decorative items can also be brought in the areas called Kumbharwadas in all the cities and towns of Gujarat. All you have to do is just ask around.
The heavily embroidered rugs and shawls produced in Gujarat’s handloom workshops simply beg to be snuggled into.
While the pastoral areas of Saurashtra and Kutch, where large, woolly sheep abound, are where most of the production takes place, the cosy fabrics are easily available in major cities as well.
Gujarat is a leading centre for silver items, including ornate jewellary, sidoor boxes, utensils and even furniture.
Anjar, Bhuj , Mandavi and Deshalpur in Kutch district are good places to shop for silverware, as are the Rajkot, Gondal and wadhwan.
For tribal silver ornaments, and even arrows and daggers, nothing can equal Poshina.
Among the most handy souvenirs youcan pick up inGujarat arae pataras, brass covered boxes in various sizes ranging from the dainty jewellary cases to huge chests that taht once carried trousseus of saris, utensils ofand even bedding.
Also worth buying are innovatively sahped brass nutcrackers, reminiscent of decadent royalty polishing off mountains of walnuts and pistas.
Pataras are available at most handicrafts emporia, but the best nutcrackers can be brought inKutch.
Rani – ko – Hajiro people to the this bustling market around the mausoleum complex of Ahemdabad’s old city for the famous block – printed cotton fabrics of Gujarat. 