Innumerable monuments, finely carved temple, vihars, forts and palaces rise in the visitors mind visions of dynasties and kingdoms of great warriors and builders, of poets and musicians, of saints and philosophers, of Hindusim, Buddhism, Jainism, Christianity, and Islam.
Singing Maina, Saint Guru Ghasidas of Satnami samaj, Mahaprabhu Vallabhacharya of Vaishnav Samaj and the great poet and saint Kabirdas also hails from this state. 
The celebrated Chinese traveler Huein Tsang visited the state in the middle of 7th century A.D. Nearly half (44%) of the state is forested and offers a unique panorama of flora and fauna.
The national parks of Kanger valley and Indravati, the sanctuaries of Udanti, Sitanadi, Barnawapara, Achanakmar, Gomardah, Tamorpingla etc.
Offer the rare opportunity to see the wild buffalo, gaur, tiger, and leopard, singing maina and wide variety of antelopes in sylvan surroundings. 
A variety of tradition in each of three geographical and cultural regions of Baghelkhand plateau, the plains of Mahandi basin, and the Dandkarnaya plateau of Bastar have added color to the states rich cultural tapestry, making it a many splendor land. 
 All the important Towns of the Region like Bhilai (25 km), Durg(41 km), Jagadalpur (297 Km), Rajnandgaon(70 km), Bilaspur (115 km) Jabalpur (369 km) and Bhopal(712 km) are connected with Raipur by Road. 
Visitors can also go to Hirakud Dam near Sambalpur and Puri (Orissa) by Road for which Bus Service is available. 
Raipur offers an attractive alternate Road route to Kanha National Park and route the traveler may also visit Bhoramdeo too.  
The route is Raipur-Kawardha- Bhoramdeo-Bodla- Chilpi- Supkhar-Muddi (178Km).
BASTAR is the Land of Tribals & Natural Resources.
This Divine Land is also enriched with Natural Beauty which makes it a paradise for tourists.
The deep forest area between bushes and bamboos where one always feel the absence of sunlight, wide and thick forests, between high mountains cool flowing streams, sky-touching mountains, caves, high waterfalls, and in the valleys the spread of greenery and in between this, the huts made by bamboo sticks, the fearless life style of the tribal and their culture, one's heart and mind would be filled with new wonders and pleasure.
The village is identified with Champaranya, the birth place of the Saint Vallabhacharya, the reformer and founder of the Vallabh Sect for whom this place has religious sanctity. 
A temple was constructed in honor of Guru Swamy Vallabhacharya, near to this temple; there is the temple of Champakeshwara Mahadeva.
An annual fair is held every year in the month of Magh (January - February). 
Birth anniversary of Mahapprabhu Vallabhacharya is celebrated every year on eleventh bright day of Baisakh (April-May) and a large number of followers of the sect assemble here to pay homage.
The district of Raipur possesses three wildlife sanctuaries. 
The sanctuaries are open throughout the year but looking to the accessibility it is advisable that the visits are made during November to June in the year.
With a varied terrain of wooded hills abounding with evergreen Sal forests, precious timber procuring, natural and planted teak forests and mixed forests of higher and medium quality, the sanctuaries offer abundant opportunities of sighting a variety of wild life.
The predominant species in the sanctuaries are deer and the most easily sighted are the graceful little chinkara, the Indian gazelle and the chital or spotted deer. 
Other species that have their habitat in the sanctuaries are nilgai, Sambar, Kotri,barking deer, chausingha or four horned antelope, sloth bear, wild boar, wild dog, jackal, wolf, hyena and bison.
Tiger & leopards/panthers can also be spotted in the sanctuaries, but they are certainly in limited numbers. 
The sanctuary's avifauna includes peacock, jungle fowl, pigeon, green pigeon, wood plucker, quail, gray-partridge, parrot, stork etc. 
Artificial water holes have been developed in the area to attract migratory birds which are good sites for bird-watchers in winter and for general tourists in summer.
Eco Tourism, Chhattisgarh Tours with 12% share of India’s forests, Chhattisgarh’s 3 national parks and 11 wildlife sanctuaries are major attractions.
 It has several virgin attractions in protected areas such as Kanger valley national park, Barnawapara, Sitanadi, Udanti and Achanakmar sanctuaries. 
The endangered Wild Buffalo (Bubalis bubalis) and the even more endangered Hill Myna (Graculis religious peninsular is) are the state animal and state bird respectively.
The State has taken several steps for their preservation.
 Natural attractions are being promoted with increased local participation and encouragement to herbal gardens and natural health resorts.
The mystique of aboriginal tribal ethno-medicine which predates even Ayurveda has been preserved and practiced over the millennia.
Mainpat (Surguja), Keshkal valley (Kanker), Chaiturgarh (Bilaspur), Bagicha (Jashpur), Kutumbsar caves, Kailash caves, Tirathgarh falls, Chitrakot falls (Bastar) are all exhilarating destinations being promoted for nature and wildlife tourism.
 Wildlife areas, camping grounds and trekking facilities would be few of the prime attractions.
Kashmir is perhaps, to possess an authentic account of its history from the very earliest period. 
This past account of the valley, its culture and traditions, rise and fall of various Kingdoms, victory and defeats of the people have been noted carefully, yet critically by the sons of its soil. 
True it is that the Kashmiri at literature is very rich in information about Kashmir.
    The modern state of Jammu and Kashmir covered an area of 86024 square miles (prior to 1947) extending from 32deg 78' to 36deg 58' N and from 73deg 27' to 80deg 72' E. 
The entire state included, beside the Jammu region, Ladakh, Gilgit, Hunza, Nagar, Punial, and Yasin. 
The tiny state of Chitral, located towards the north-western side of Gilgit, used to pay tribute to Kashmir ruler.
It was due to the untiring efforts of Maharaja Gulab Singh Ji (the founder of Dogra Hindu dynasty in Kashmir) that the State took its present shape and form in the 2nd half of the 19th century.
    The beauty and the salubrious climate of the valley were known even from the ancient times.
 The mythological traditions supported fully by the research of geologists confirm that the valley originally was a huge lake called "Satisar", ( the land of goddess Sati, consort of Lord Shiva ) and its waters were blocked near Baramulla (ancient Varahmulla).
 In the words of Sir Francis Young Husband, "The huge lake must have been twice the length and three times the width of the lake of Geneva, completely encircled by snowy mountains as high, and higher than Mount Blank, while in the immediately following glacial period, mighty glaciers came wending down to the Sindh, Lidder, and other valleys even to the edge of water."
    Kashmir's greatest historian Kalhan writes about his native land: "It is a country where the sun shines mildly, being the place created by Rishi Kashyap, for his glory - big and lofty houses, learning, Saffron, icy cool water and grapes rare in Heaven are plentiful here - Kailash is the best place in the three worlds (Tri-lok), Himalayas the best place in Kailash, and Kashmir the best place in Himalayas".
    Sir Walter Lawrence writes "The valley is an emerald set in pearls; a land of lakes, clear streams, green turf, magnificent trees and mighty mountains where the air is cool, and the water sweet, where men are strong, and women vie with the soil in fruitfulness. 
 He further writes that the valley contains everything which should make life enjoyable. 
There is sport varied and excellent; there is scenery for the artist and the layman, mountain for the mountaineer, flower for the Botanist, a vast field for the Geologist and magnificent ruins for the archaeologist.
    According to the oldest extant book on Kashmir, “Nilmat Puran ", in the Satisar lived a demon called Jalod Bowa, who tortured and devoured the people, who lived near mountain slopes. 
Hearing the suffering of the people, a great saint of our country, Kashyap by name, came to the rescue of the people here. 
After performing penance for a long time, the saint was blessed, and he was able to cut the mountain near Varahmulla, which blocked the water of the lake from flowing into the plains below.
 The lake was drained, the land appeared, and the demon was killed. 
The saint encouraged people from India to settle in the valley. 
The people named the valley as Kashyap-Mar and Kashyap-Pura. 
The name Kashmir also implies land desiccated from water: "ka" (the water) and shimeera (to desiccate). 
The ancient Greeks called it "Kasperia" and the Chinese pilgrim Hien-Tsang who visited the valley around 631 A. D. called it KaShi-Mi-Lo ". 
In modern times the people of Kashmir have shortened it into "Kasheer" in their tongue.
The chief Geological formation of the ice-age here are the latchstring deposits called the " Karewas ", which overlay the terminal moraines of the first Glaciation and are comprised of two groups, Lower and Upper, differentiated by the moraines of the second Glaciation. 
The fossil remains of Elphas-Hysudrious obtained in the lower 'Karewas' point to lower “Pleistocene age ", writes De Teera. 
The Neolithic culture is indicated by the discovery of ground and polished stone axes, hoes, pestle, and bone implements at the well-known menhir-site of Burzahom, ten miles east of, Srinagar. 
Burazahoma is famous as one of the only two megalithic sites in the extreme north-west of Indian sub-continent.
 We do not exactly know the Cultural horizon of the Burazahoma megalithic, nor the Purpose for which they were erected, but the indications are, they were put in places towards the end of the Neolithic period at that site, between 400 to 300 B. C."
 In 1960, Archaeological Department of the Govt. of India began systematic excavation at this site. 
This is Perhaps the only known find of such a settlement in India.
 It is possible that more valuable data would be found, when extensive surface diggings are completed.
Kalhan has started the history of Kashmir just before the great Mahabharat war, and the first King mentioned by him is Gonanda I, whose initial year of reign he places in 653 Kali-era, the traditional date of the coronation of King Yudhistira, the eldest brother of the Pandvas.
 Gonanda was killed in a battle along with his son in India, and at the time of the commencement of the Mahabharat war, Gonanda II was ruling Kashmir. 
After his death, the great historian informs that the record of 35 kings who ruled the valley could not be traced by him, because of the destruction of the record.
 However a modern scholar Peer Zada Hassan has given a brief record of these Kings from a Persian work composed during the time of Sultan Zainul-Abdeen (1420-70). 
The author of this work Mulla Ahmad had been able to obtain the names of these kings from an earlier Sanskrit work “Ratnakar ". 
The great Mauryan emperor Ashoka is recorded to have ruled Kashmir, and Kalhan rightly mentions that the king was a follower of Buddhism. 
Ashoka founded the old city of Srinagar called now as “Pandrethan ", (Puranadhisthan) and also build many vihars and temples and repaired the old shrine.
 At Vijeshwari (modern Bijbehra), he built a Shiva Temple, thus winning the heart of the local population, who were mostly worshippers of Lord Shiva. 
It was Majjhantika, a celebrated Buddhist missionary who was deputed to Kashmir and Urvasa to preach the faith of Buddha in those territories. 
Hien-Tsang mentions the arrival of 500 monks to Kashmir, and Ashoka making a gift of the valley to Sangha. 
Many Buddhist scholars, missionaries, and intellectuals permanently settled in the valley. 
Naturally, in course of time, many people embraced Buddhism here.
 According to local tradition, like Lord Shri Krishna, Lord Buddha is also supposed to have visited Kashmir.
 Writes Sir Charles Elliot in a book called 'Hinduism and Buddhism': "For some two centuries after Gautam's death, we have little information as to the geographical extension of his doctrine, but some of the Sanskrit versions of the “Vinaya ", represent him visiting Mathura, north-west India and Kashmir. 
After the death of Ashoka, his son Jaluka ascended the throne of Kashmir, and the latter was succeeded by his son King Damodar II. 
King Damodar lives in our memory even at present, for the Srinagar Air-port is located at Damodar I Karewa ', where the king is supposed to have lived in a big palace and, where again, he was transformed into a snake by the curse of a Brahmin. 
The scholars also, accept the theory that the valley for over two hundred years was ruled by Indo-Greek Kings before the start of “Turushka “(Kushan) rule in the state. 
Cunningham records a large find of silver coins of Azes (and Azilies) (coins of Indo-Scythians) on the banks of Vitasta (river Jhelum) in the hills between Varahmulla and Jhelum. 
The contact with the Greeks is responsible for the beautiful architectural and sculptural style of old Kashmir temples, and the coinage of later Kashmir Kings has also been influenced by this contact. 
Kalhan's account of Turushka Kings indicates without any doubt the Kushan occupation of the Valley.
The three kings mentioned by him are Huska, Juska, and Kanishka, each of them is credited with the foundation of a town, christened after their respective names: Hushkapura, Jushkapura and Kanishkapura. 
The Kushan Kings also built many temples and Vihars. 
 The entire proceedings of the conference were inscribed on copper plates in Sanskrit, enclosed in stone boxes, deposited in a Vihar.
 Like famous Gilgit manuscripts, it is possible that these copper plates may be unearthed in near future, and we would learn much about the rich cultural history of the valley.
As a result of this conference, large number of Kashmiri intellectuals took to missionary work and hundreds of the wisest sons of the valley carried the torch of Indian civilization and culture to many parts of central Asia, China, Tibet and other places.
The number of Buddhist scholars who went to China from Kashmir is larger than that of those who went from other parts of India. 
Kashmir was the most flourishing centre of Buddhist learning in this period.
 It was the centre of most powerful Buddhist sect of Northern India known as 'Sarvastivada'. 
A few of the most important Kashmir Missionaries were Kumarjiva, Yasa, Vima Laksha, Sanghbuti, Gautam Sangha, Buddviyasa, Buddhijiva, Gunavarman, Dharamputra and Shyama Bhata.
After Kanishka, local weak rulers continued to govern the state, till we hear from Kalhan, the arrival of Mahir-Gul, the notorious Hun invader of our country. 
Kalhan correctly represents him as a savage cruel king, whose approach became known by the sight of thousands of vultures, crows and the like in the sky, eager to feed on those being massacred by his encircling army. 
 Till the advent of Karkota dynasty (beginning of 8th Century) the Gonanda dynasty gave Kashmir only two notable rulers viz. Meghvahan and Pravansein. 
The former was a pious and a strong ruler with Buddhist leanings.
 He stopped killing of animals and birds throughout his Kingdom.
 In fact, he undertook conquest of many countries solely for the purpose of stopping animal slaughter. 
His chief queen Amrit Prabha built 'Amrit Bhawan' Vihar for foreign pilgrims and students who came to Kashmir in large numbers for learning. 