Than Bok Khorani National Park covers an area of 37.5 rai of land in Tambon Ao Leuk Tai.
Than Bok Khorani National Park’s headquarters is located just one kilometer from Tambon Ao Leuk Neua Market intersection on the Ao Luk Sak road.
The Park is covered by a canopy of diverse species of trees such as wild gardenia, asoka, and Apocynaceae that are scattered around Sa Bok Khorani, an attractive emerald pond after which the park is named where visitors can swim.
At the north end of Sa Bohk Korani, which flows through a winding passage in the mountain, is a wood carving of a footprint of the Lord Buddha and a shrine of Chao Pho To Yuan - To Chong.
Other attractions in the park include several limestone mountain caves, verdant mangrove forests and beautiful islands which can be reached only by boat Admission fee is 200 baht per person.
The Park does not provide accommodations, but camping in the park is allowed although tourists have to bring their own tents.
Khao Phanom Bencha National Park is located 20 kilometers from Krabi along Talat Kao-Ban Huai To Road, the Park covers a total area of 50 square kilometers including some parts of Amphoe Ao Luk, Amphoe Khao Phanom, and Amphoe Mueang.
Khao Phanom Bencha National Park has pristine, lush forest on its highest peaks.
Tent can be rented at the rate of 50 baht per person per day in the Phanom Bencha National Park.
Namtok Huai To, located approximately 500 meters from the Park's office, this waterfall flows over rocks into 11 huge pools, each with their own name, such as Wang Thewada, Wang Sok, and Wang Chan.
Another 3-tiered waterfall in Khao Phanom Bencha National Park, originating from a high-altitude cliff called Namtok Huai Sa-de is located some 1.2 kilometers from the Parks office.
Apart from visiting waterfalls, adventurous visitors can trek to the peak of the Phanom Bencha Mountain, which is 1,397 meters high.
This challenging and memorable activity takes at least 3 days and passes streams, waterfalls, caves and view points on high cliffs.
Namtok Khlong Haeng 500-meter high waterfall, which springs from Khao Thep Bencha, Krabis tallest mountain, is 10 kilometers from Amphoe Khao Phanom.
Accommodations are provided within the park but advance reservations are required.
Tham Khao Phueng, group of 5 caves, which is approximately 3 kilometers from the park's office, has sparkling white walls and countless stalagmites and stalactites of various shapes resembling mushrooms, pagodas and curtains.
Emerald Pool is hot spring originates from a warm stream in the lowland forest of Khao Nor Juji which is supposedly Thailand's last piece of virgin and fertile forest.
The intensity of the pools turquoise colored water varies according to the light and time of the day so visitors determined to see the real emerald color should plan to visit at dawn or early in the morning.
The pool, which can be visited all year round, charges and entrance fee of 20 baht.
To get there, take Highway No. 4 to Khlong Thom District, then turn left to Route No. 4038 to Lam Hap Sub-district. 
The Emerald pool is located along the way, with clear signs posted.
In order to see Namtok Hin Phoeng, 3-level waterfall, which drops from a height of 800 meters, visitors have to take a 400-meter walk along the mountainside after arriving at the lower basin.
The Namtok Hin Phoeng waterfall is situated 25 kilometers from Khlong Thom District and can be reached by driving along Highway No. 4 (Krabi-Trang), turning left at Khlong Phon Market and proceeding for another 8 kilometers.
The Namtok Ron Khlong Thom waterfall, located quite near to the Emerald pool, is in a shady forest area with numerous hot springs.
The hot springs and cool streams converge on a slope to form lovely cascades of warm water with a temperature of 40-50 degrees Celsius.
The best time to visit Namtok Khlong Thom is from 7.00 a.m. to 8.00 a.m. and from 4.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m.
To reach theNamtok Khlong Thom  waterfall visitors should travel 45 kilometers from town to Amphoe Khlong Thom, then take Sukhaphiban 2 Road for another 12 kilometers.
To visit the Namtok Khlong Thom waterfall, the admission fee is 10 baht per person.
Wat Khlong Thom Museum exhibits various artifacts discovered during excavations of an area called "Khuan Luk Pat" or a bead mound behind Wat Khlong Thom.
Unearthed artifacts include stone tools, bronze implements, metal coins, pottery shards, ceramic and stone decorative art and colored beads that are over 5,000 years old in this Wat Khlong Thom Museum.
Wat Khlong Thom Museum is situated within the compound of Wat Khlong Thom between Kilometer marker 69-70 on Phetchakasem Highway, one kilometer from the District office.
Despite being a hazard to ships Hin Daeng submerged open water reef on the outer edge of the Andaman Sea is a superb diving spot featuring diverse colorful corals.
An archipelago of five islands, Ko Ha Yai is where shallow water coral reefs are located.
Ko Hai is small island has a long sandy beach in the east and unspoiled shallow water coral reefs at the beachfront.
Ko Hai island is accessible by taking a ferry and a chartered boat from Pak Meng Pier, Trang province.
Ko Lanta consists of two adjacent islands: Ko Lanta Yai and Ko Lanta Noi.
Koh Lanta Yai, This island is home to "Chao Le" or sea gypsies who continue to maintain their traditional lifestyle and beliefs, such as setting a boat a drift to drive out evil and bring good luck, which is practiced during the full moon in June and November.
In addition, the island provides tourist facilities while Ko Lanta Noi is the location of the district office.
Most of the beaches on Ko Lanta Yai such as Kho Kwang, Khlong Dao, Phra Ae, Khlong Khong, Khlong Nin and Ba Kan Tiang lies in the west, can be reached by road and offer a wide range of accommodations.
Ko Rok’s attraction is actually comprised of two islands: Ko Rok Nai and Ko Rok Nok.
Ko Rok Nai is composed mainly of steep cliffs with superb beachs and unspoiled coral reefs among rocks. 
On the other hand, Ko Rok Nok has soft white sandy beaches and shallow water coral reefs towards the southeast and south with Hat Thalu and Ao Man Sai situated at the end of the island.
Visitors can contact tour operators, resorts and bungalows on Ko Lanta Yai for an excursion to Ko Rok by speedboat.
Ko Talabeng is a limestone island similar to Ko Phi Phi Le with numerous small and attractive beaches and caves that are clearly visible during low tide.
Covering an area of 152 square kilometers, Mu Ko Lanta National Park is comprised of many different-sized islands, some of which are surrounded by beautiful coral reefs such as Ko Ha, Ko Rok and Ko Hai.
Mu Ko Lanta National Parks main island is Ko Lanta Yai, where both the Headquarters and National Park Office are located.
The island itself is generally rugged and mountainous with gravelly and sandy beaches to the south.
The most suitable time to visit Ko Lanta is from November to April.
For more information please contact Mu Ko Lanta National Park, No.5, Tambon Ko Lanta Yai, Amphoe Ko Lanta, Krabi 81150.
Boat departs from downtown Krabi to Ko Lanta Yai daily; the journey takes 2.5 hours.
Ao Nang is located approximately 6 kilometers from Hat Noppharat Thara and 20 kilometers from the town of Krabi.
A large bay with scenic beaches and 83 small islands, Ao Nang has several famous beaches which include East Rai Le, West Rai Le and Tham Phra Nang (cave) which stretches to the foot of a prominent limestone range.
A boat from Ao Nang Village can be hired for sightseeing excursions around Ao Nang, Hat Tham Phra Nang and Hat Nam Mao, all of which are only accessible by foot.
Other offshore isles such as Ko Poda, Ko Kai, Ko Mo and Ko Thap, are popular destinations that can be reached by a rented boat from Ao Nang.
An abundance of colorful coral reefs and lovely cartoon fishes make these islands ideal for diving and snorkeling.
Ao Nang has recently emerged as a 5-star tourist attraction due to its numerous 4-5 star hotels and boutique resorts complete with facilities such as diving shops and rental boats.
Popular activities include sightseeing by canoe along the beachfront and paddling tours by inflatable canoes or kayaks of the coast and its mangrove forests, islands and semi-submerged caves.
Canoeing and kayaking are two ways to enjoy the spectacular seascape, limestone cliffs and caves in Krabi's waters as these sports allow visitors to explore hidden offshore areas at a more leisurely pace.
Canoeing and kayaking operators are available at Ao Nang.
Like Phang-nga, Krabi offers a great opportunity for diving due to its numerous natural marine resources including over a hundred offshore islands.
Dive shops around Rai Le and Ao Nang provide dive trips as well as rent diving and snorkeling gear such as mask/snorkel/fin at the rate of 150 baht/ set/ day (with a deposit of 500 baht).
The advantage of diving from Ao Nang is the nearby sites in the Poda Island group, where water visibility is better than that of the mainland, but not as good as Phi Phi.
There are 15 dive sites off of Ao Nang, all reachable with a 20 to 60-minute boat ride. For experienced divers there is a 50-meter long cave at 5-12 meters depth at Yawabon Island behind Poda.
Some Ao Nang dive shops close during low season, May to October, while some (Ao Nang Divers for instance) remain open all year long.
Two local dives in the Poda/Yawasam group cost approximately 1,900 baht.
Four-day PADI open water courses have risen to 10,000 baht.
For more information contact either Seafan, Aquavision, Poseidon, Phra Nang, Stingray, Ao Nang Divers (in Krabi Seaview), or Coral Diving (Krabi Resort).
Unlike Phi Phi, scuba dive operators in Ao Nang close from May to October.
Hat Noppharat Thara (Noppharat Thara Beach) is located 6 kilometers from Ao Nang is a famous 3-kilometer long white sandy beach lined with dense casuarinas and coconut groves.
Noppharat Thara Beach, paved with tiny seashells, was formerly called "Hat Khlong Haeng", which means dried canal beach by locals, because the canal dries up during low tide and the area turns into a long beach. 
Situated 18 kilometers north-west of Krabi, Hat Noppharat Thara is in fact part of Hat Noppharat Thara-Mu Ko Phi Phi National Park and is the location of the Park headquarters.
Mu Ko Phi Phi National Park covers a large area both onshore and offshore and. Reservations for accommodations on the beach should be made in advance at the Forestry Department in Bangkok
Ferry services to Ko Phi Phi are provided from this beach all year round.
Noppharat Thara beach can be reached by songthaew from the city at the rate of 20 baht and to travel further to Ao Nang, it will cost an additional 10 baht.
Hat Rai Le (Rai Le Beach) beach is generally divided into two sections, east and west
West Rai Le provides visitors with peace and quiet as it is a broad sandy beach with fewer facilities than Ao Nang.
East Rai Le which lies across the peninsula from West Rai Le is different from other beaches in the area as it could actually be classified as a mud flat, especially during low tide.
In addition to remarkable views and mangrove forests to the north of the beach, the main attraction for visitors to Hat Rai Le is the adrenaline pumping activity of cliff climbing.
The limestone cliffs on the huge headland between Hat Rai La East and Tham Phra Nang, as well as other nearby islands provide world-class rock climbing facilities against a stunning backdrop of the sea with approximately 700 sport routes of mid to high difficulty ratings.
Accessible only by boat, Hat Tham Phra Nang, this stunning, pristine beach has fine-grained white sand and crystalline waters as well as magnificent jagged karsts.
This is a highly secluded picture perfect beach of Hat Tham Phra Nang that attracts thousands of visitors year round but is able to maintain its flawless appearance and relaxing ambience.
Hat Tham Phra Nang beach is the location of the 5-star Rayavadee resort, a private property that occupies 26 acres of the beach and the only compound located near Phra Nang Beach.
The Inner and Outer Phra Nang Caves, and Phra Nang Lagoon, which are located nearby offer remarkable views against a stunning backdrop and a range of accommodations to suit every budget.
All attractions of Phra Nang Lagoon are accessible only by boat; they still draw numerous visitors for recreational and adventurous activities such as diving, snorkeling, hiking and rock climbing.
Regarded as the symbol of Krabi, Khao Khanap Nam are two mountains that are roughly 100 meters tall, separated by Maenam Krabi and located at the entrance to Krabi city.
Khao Khanap Nam has beautiful caves with amazing stalactites and stalagmites worth exploring.
In addition to natural attractions, a large number of human skeletons have been found in Khao Khanap Nam.
It is theorized that they are the remains of people who came and established a home at Kanab Nam, but were cut off by an inundation and quickly perished.
The mountains can be reached by taking a 15-minute long tail boat ride from Chao Fa Pier.
For visitors interested in a more extensive excursion, it is possible to tent a boat can be rented at 300 baht per trip to visit Khao Khanap Nam, mangrove forests and Ko Klang fishing village.
Krabi Horticultural Centre, agro-tourism attraction, supported by the Department of Agricultural Extension, is approximately 20 kilometers from Krabi on the way to Amphoe Ao Luek.
The center covers a large area with a collection of local fruits, flowers and economic plants.
Facilities provided include a touring route, demonstrative research plant plots, parking areas, toilets and beverages.
There are also an agricultural product promotion centre, herb gardens, fisheries and mussel farms located along the Krabi-Phuket route in Krabi Horticultural Centre.
Regarded by travelers from all walks of life as being among the most beautiful tropical islands of the world, Phi Phi Islands have become one of the most popular tourist attractions in Thailand.
In addition, the Phi Phi islands are famous as the location where the movie "The Beach" featuring Leonardo Di Caprio was shot.
Phi Phi islands, together with the nearby Noppharat Thara Beach, a total area of 390 square kilometers, were recently established as a national park.
Phi Phi Islands are located just 40 kilometers away from both Krabi and Phuket.
Thus, despite the fact that both Noppharat Thara Beach and Phi Phi administratively are a part of Krabi Province, most tourists think that Ko Phi Phi is part of Phuket Province.
Phi Phi islands and the coastal hills are composed mainly of limestone and are an extension of the limestone mountain range in Phang-Nga Province.