Teenagers will find all the latest clothing and footwear brands in the sports and leisure shops, while the well-known outdoor retail outlets offer everything for that walking or camping holiday.
For a stress-free family adventure holiday come to the Isle of Wight. 
All year round, come rain or shine, there's an endless number of places to explore and to entertain.
There are theme parks, and historic castles, historic houses and for animal lovers there's a tiger sanctuary, a falconry centre, an adventure park with exotic animals, and a donkey sanctuary in the Isle of Wight. 
13 beaches of the Isle of Wight have Seaside Awards, and the golden beaches of Sandown and Shanklin both have the European Blue Flag Award - the mark of safety and cleanliness.
Remote and rugged, the beach at Compton Bay gives you yet more choice. 
For the older age groups, there are water sport centres, horse-riding schools and dozens of well-kept cycling tracks.
And with the Isle of Wight Music Festival and Bestival, we've two of the world's greatest music festivals - huge events that welcomed the likes of REM and Faithless in 2005 and Coldplay, Prodigy and Foo Fighters in 2006. 
There are establishments who provide baby listening, smoke-free areas and children/healthy menus - in addition to unique organic ice cream! For parents who want some occasional time out from all the family fun, baby-sitting services are available too.
A huge network of bridleways, crashing breakers, full-on headwinds and diverse terrain - the Isle of Wight is made for an adventure holiday.
A stunning coastline and a warm climate, the Isle of Wight is the perfect outdoor-activity playground with something for everyone all year round. Safe, and with the best instructors around, it's the ideal place to try something new.
There are lots of ways to see the Island by land or from the air and have great fun doing it.
To add even more spice, time your trip to coincide with a world-acclaimed event.
Every year the Isle host Cowes Week, Round the Island Yacht Race, U.I.M. Power Boat P1 British Grand Prix of the Sea and the Wight Diamond Festival.
Fast and skillful, the increasingly popular beach football is another sport that's attracting attention on the Island.
Only minutes away from the mainland and so easy to reach - yet the Isle of Wight is a world apart.
This diamond-shaped island has a magic all of its own - and is one of the UK's sunniest and warmest places.
Boasting award-winning beaches, unspoilt and spectacular scenery and a rich historical heritage, there are attractions, activities and adventures to suit visitors of all ages and nationalities.
Discover picturesque villages, spectacular cliffs, downland, sandy beaches, rich farmlands, creeks, marshland, river valleys, and a rich diversity of wildlife, flora and fauna.
More than half the Island is an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, with 500 miles of award-winning public footpaths and bridleways, while almost 30 miles of its seashore is Heritage Coast.
Within an area of just 147 square miles (3,800 hectares) over 500 miles of carefully maintained and well signposted rights of way can be found.
On your travels of thatch and stone, ancient churches and manor houses, leafy lanes wind their way from coast to coast through green valleys, meadows, forest and over downland.
Choose from an extensive range of maps, guide books and leaflets available from Tourist Information Centres or join one of the many guided walks held throughout the year.
Follow a 62 mile route through some of the Island's best scenery, mainly using quieter lanes, signed with a white bike clockwise, and a blue bike anticlockwise.
There are wonderful opportunities to explore the Island's vast network of bridleways, some of which have been in use since the Stone Age, when early man travelled along the central chalk ridge.
Enjoy the panoramic views from these high tracks used by drovers, horsemen and carters, long before our present roads were built or a leisurely ride through ancient woodlands and sweet-scented meadows.
Leave your car at home and help reduce traffic congestion, pollution and protect the environment.
Buses reach all corners of the Island and you often get an interesting perspective of the countryside from the top deck of a bus.
Trains connect passenger ferries at Ryde with Sandown and Shanklin. Stops along the way include a connection.
Mongolia is located in East Central Asia and covers 1,564,100 sq km, between 87 47’ and 119 57’ of the east longtitude and 41 35’ and 52 06’ of the north latitude
From among many countries, travelers have admired Mongolia for its clear sunny skies and contrasting natural features ranging from high mountains, valleys and wide open steppes to the Gobi desert and semi-desert.
The last 60 years of meteorological observation show annual average temperatures of 8.5C in the Gobi and -7.8C in the mountains.
Annual precipitation is low, averaging 200-220mm, ranging from under 50mm in the extreme south (Gobi desert) tom 400mm in limited areas in the north.
The capital of modern Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar, is a city with a history of over 360 years
After Karakorum the Imperial capital was abandoned, a new urban cite known initially as Urga, was founded in 1639 for the first spiritual leader of the Mongols, Bogd Zanabazar.
Upon his investiture ceremony, the local nobility assigned their subordinates to be his disciples and to establish the city of Urga, renamed Bogdyn Khuree, which initially moved over twenty times along the Orkhon, Tuul and Selenge river valleys.
In 1778 Urga was settled between the four mountains of Bogd Khaan, Bayanzurkh, Songino Khairkhan and Chingeltei, on the banks of the Khatan Tuul and Selbe rivers, and was renamed Ikh Khuree.
The Ikh Khuree of the Khalkh Mongols, apart from being its ecclesiastical center, also became the country’s cultural, state, economic and spiritual capital.
As a result of the struggle for Mongolian independence and national freedom in 1911, the newly-declared Bogd Khaan government of Mongolia has chosen the Ikh Khuree, duly renaming it Niislel Khuree, as a designated capital of a sovereign nation.
The first State Great Khural (1924) gave it the legal status of capital city of the Mongolian People’s Republic, renaming it Ulaanbaatar City.
Only 90 years ago the city housed around 50,000; it is now home to about a million, including long-term and short-term foreign and domestic visitors.
Since the 1994 Law on Ulaanbaatars legal status was passed by the State Great Khural, the capital city now has its own banner, coat of arms and emblem.
Under the Constitution, the city of Ulaanbaatar is specified as “a city with specific functions, its power management, territory, economic and social complex, and special status set forth by the law”.
The city of Ulaanbaatar has established and maintains friendly relationships with many cities around the world including Seoul, Florence, Moscow, and Denver.
Among the world’s capital cities, Ulaanbaatar is notable as the capital city with the coldest climatic conditions.
Mongolia has diverse and distinctive flora and fauna, including rare animals like the argali wild sheep, the takhi (the only wild horse species, also called the Przewalski horse), camels, snow leopard and ibex. 
Many dinosaur fossils have been found in the Gobi desert, with stunning examples displayed in Ulaanbaatar`s Natural History Museum.
Mongolian history centers on the world-famous Chinggis Khaan (whom foreigners call Genghis Khan), the 13th century warrior-statesman who united the varied tribes into the Mongolian nation that controlled the greatest land empire the world has ever seen. 
The tho major national celebrations are Naadam, an annual summer festival of the three traditional so-called `manly games` of horse racing, wrestling and archery; and Tsagaan sar, the lunar New Year, marking the theoretical end of winter and coming of spring. 
Ulaanbaatar, the capital city, is on the Tuul River, surrounded by majestic mountains.
The combination of these pine-clad mountains, wide boulevards, vast public squares and many parks give the city a spacious feeling, while the ger districts and bustling marketplaces give it a rustic charm.
The most visited city sites are Sukhbaatar Square, Gandan monastery and the Zaisan Hill War Memorial.
The main museums are of National History, Fine Arts, Choijin Lama temple, and the Palace of Bogd Khaan. Other cultural sites are the National Art Gallery, the Opera and Ballet and the Drama theaters, and cashmere factories.
The site of Chinggis Khaan’s fabled city, administrative center of an enormous empire, Karakorum was founded in 1220 in the Orkhon valley, at the crossroads of the Silk Road.
Karakorum was the seat of power of the Mongol Empire until Khubilai Khaan transfered it to what has nowadays become Beijing.
The city was destroyed and its materials used to build the monumental 400m walls and 108 stupas that surrounded Mongolis's first Buddhist monastery of Erdene Zuu, built in 1586.
Inside the walls by 1792 there were 62 temples and 10.000 lamas, and stone turtles marked the boundaries, two of which can still be found. 
The Gobi desert, in the south, is a vast zone of desert and desert steppe covering almost 30 percent of the country.
The area is often believed to be a lifeless desert, but is actually mostly steppe, inhabited by camel herders, rich in wildlife.
Open all year, Terelj (meaning dahurian rhododendron) is a spectacular valley park only two-hour drive from Ulaanbaatar, with green meadows carpeted with a dazzling variety of edelweiss and other wildflowers, fascinating rock formations against a backdrop of pine-clad mountains and wooded streams. 
Khorgo is an extinct basalt-covered volcano east of Lake Terkhiin Tsagaan National Park, Arkhangai Aimag, with interesting bubbles of solidified lava called the basalt gers.
Gun-Galuut Nature Reserve is truly the marvelous combination of mountains, steppes, pretty lakes, rivers and wetlands with its famous rare wildlife species.
Gun-Galuut is a home to the world endangered Wild mountain sheep-Argali, White-napped crane, Siberian White Crane, Hooded Crane, Swan Goose, Whooper swan and so on.
Tourists visiting the Gun-Galuut Nature Reserve have the opportunities to do watching and taking photos of the endangered species, fishing, rafting and kayaking in the lakes and rivers, hiking, trekking and camping in the beautiful and peaceful nature, visiting nomadic family, riding horse, yak and camel and getting introduced to traditional nomadic lifestyle and culture.
Mongolia has very diverse and distinctive flora and fauna, which represent a mixture of species from the northern taiga of Siberia, the steppe, and the deserts of Central Asia.
Mongolia is a unique and relatively unexplored travel destination that offers a great combination of scenic natural features, a wide variety of untouched landscapes including vast open spaces, paleontological and historical heritage areas, and nomadic lifestyle and culture.
The Government of Mongolia has recognized tourism as a priority sector with a great potential to contribute to socio-economic development of the country.
One of the such steps was the approval of the “Basic Guidelines for the Development of Tourism in Mongolia for the period of 1995-2005” and the “Implementation plan for Tourism,” both adopted by the Government Resolution No.167 with the aim of development of tourism sector based on state planning and regulation.
The implementation of “Development of Tourism in Mongolia“ project during 1998-1999 within the framework of the EU-supported TACIS program has resulted the formation of legal framework for development of tourism industry in Mongolia.
Additionally, the development vision and strategies of the tourism sector up to year 2015 were formulated, and the specific priority programs and projects were identified based on the “Master Plan on National Tourism Development in Mongolia,” which was developed with assistance of Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
The Tourism Law of Mongolia was enacted on May 5, 2000 for the first time since transition to the market-oriented economy.
The law outlines definition for tourism, responsibilities and obligations of the state, tourism organizations, structure, as well as rights and responsibilities of state administration, oversight activities for tourism sector, arrangements for the development of tourism-related infrastructure and penalties in case of violation of this law.
"Chinggis" Tourist Camp was inaugurated in July 2002 in memory of "Chinggis" Khaan's 840th Birthday Celebration!, has a great location in the beautiful natural River Tuul Nomad's Sacred Valley of streams, pine trees, just 55km from Ulaanbaatar city.
From Ulaanbaatar to "Chinggis" tourist camp is 51 km paved road and 4 km unpaved road. This lovely tourist camp owned by Samar Magic Tours Co., Ltd, lies on the bank of "Tuul" river between 107°31'29" Longitude and 47°49'32'' Latitude. The average altitude is 1446m above sea level.
NOMADS' DAY FESTIVAL: This fantastic two-day festival is held in the tranquil and scenic Gun-Galuut Nature Reserve annually.
The festival is a Nomads' Festival presenting the best day - "17th of the middle month of Autumn" for nomads.
During the festival the nomads enjoy challenging over 10 wonderful traditional games and nomadic customs as competitions among horsemen, women, kids and families and organizing a mini version of the Great Naadam festival (horse racing, wrestling and archery), performing folklore concert, and preparing festival gala-dinner etc.
The festival brings you a great opportunity to meet real nomads and take part in some competitions if you wish.
Mongolia is famous with its wild nature, nomadic culture and hospitable people which attract foreign tourists around the world. 
Government of Mongolia has recognized tourism as a priority sector with a great potential to contribute to economic development of the country.
The International Tourism Fair is the one of biggest tourism event in Asia-Pacific region, where exhibited 1150 tourism organizations and companies from 50 countries.
Until recent years Mongolia has been one of the sleeping beauties of the Central Asia closed to the world.
Today Mongols are keenly recreating their own national identity hoping that the rest of the world will appreciate further its unique culture and prosperous history.
The first picture of the Stuttgart city arms which we still have comes from the city seal of the year 1312 which shows two horses of differing sizes (heraldic) stepping to the right in the early and high gothic triangular shield.
Stuttgart is a sports city! Many world championships, European championships and other international sports tournaments take place here.
Through its location in the southwest of Germany, Stuttgart is an ideal starting point for excursions to the Black Forest, the Swabian Alb, the Lake of Constance, the Hohenloher Land as well as the neighboring countries of Austria, France and Switzerland.
Prominent in the Stuttgart cultural life is the State Theatre Stuttgart with renowned plays, the world famous Stuttgart Ballet and the State Opera, which has been awarded many times and which received the coveted title "Opera House of the Year" in 1998, 1999, 2000, 2002 and 2006.
The two musicals "Mamma Mia" and "Elisabeth" in the unique SI Experience Center, the fascinating State Gallery Stuttgart or the numerous museums like the automobile museums from Mercedes-Benz and Porsche are further magnets for the public.
In the Wilhelma, Europe's largest zoological - botanical gardens, you can gaze at more then 10,000 animals and exotic plants, In der Wilhelma, exquisite garden art and architecture in the Moorish style.
We also invite you to the many cheerful festivals like the Summer Festival, the Stuttgart Wine Village, the Cannstatter Beer Festival, one of the largest and most beautiful folk festivals in the world, or the atmospheric Christmas Market.
With around 2,200 square meters, the impressive building, which was built according to the plans of the British star architect James Stirling, presents an exciting overview of the history of southwest Germany.
Charmingly embedded in one of the largest winegrowing regions of Germany, Stuttgart is attractive on the one hand through its exquisite panorama, the beautiful squares, the noble castles and buildings with differing architectural styles and on the other hand through the diverse cultural offerings.
The two musicals in the unique SI experience center, the fascinating State Gallery Stuttgart or the numerous museums such as the automobile museums from Mercedes-Benz and Porsche are further magnets for the public.
The "House of History" and the cultural mile enrich to a great extent the Stuttgart museum life. 
The Stuttgart region offers a diverse, charming landscape with an abundance of attractive excursion possibilities: hiking, biking tours or boat trips on the Neckar, visiting museums, fortresses and castles in historic town, a ramble through beautiful medieval city cores, relaxing in the health resorts surrounded by nature and pleasure with traditional, cozy wine festivals.
Since wine grows especially on meager soil which cannot be used by other forms of agriculture, many mostly poor families turned to viniculture.
wine was grown wherever possible and people hoped for St. Urban, the patron saint of the wine farmers who was supposed to help against frost and hail.
Viniculture took over to such a capacity that the rulers had to forbid the cultivation of additional grapes at the beginning of the 14th century in order to not endanger the supply of the people with bread, fruits and meat and milk.
In the year 1386 according to the chronics more wine flew than water so that the mortar for building houses partially had to be mixed with wine.
Wine was cultivated on in all 45,000 hectares in Wuerttemberg in 1600 (today its is some 11,000 hectares) and often in the surplus of wine it was "free for whoever wanted it".