Golf is one of the most popular sports in Thailand and this game arrived in the county a century ago and was quickly taken up by the elite and the fashionableGolf is one of the most popular sports in Thailand. The game arrived in the county a century ago and was quickly taken up by the elite and the fashionable.
Among the first sponsors of the Golf were the armed forces and government institutions.
About 350,000 visitors are believed to have played golf in Thailand in 2002, generating an expenditure of nearly 6.2 billion baht.
ccThe Tourism Authority of Thailand is planning to raise these figures to one million golfers, generating an estimated 18.45 billion baht by 2007.
There are over 200 high standard golf courses nationwide, many of them championship standards.
The world’s top designers have made a significant contribution. Jack Nicklaus, Roboert Trent Jones Jr, Pete De Gar Player and many others have perfected modern layouts, using the best grasses and latest techniques.
The result is some of the most attractive courses in Asia, with excellent facilities, memorable signature holes and regular maintenance to keep them in top-class condition.
There are at least a few courses in or within easy reach of all major cites. Most of the newer courses offer accommodation on site or nearby, plus recreational facilities for the whole family.
For the more adventurous, there are older, natural courses in remote areas around the courses in remote areas around the country owned by the Royal Irrigation Department, the Electricity Generation Authority of Thailand, all offering good value.
golfers who not only appreciate a challenging course, but an exotically different one too, there is an extraordinary choice in Thailand.
The best time to plan a golfing trip is the cool season, from November to March and from April to October it is hot and wet, but even in the rainy months the downfall usually comes in the afternoon, and for only a few minutes.
Most courses have good drainage systems, and the rains should not interrupt your game for long.
At some facilities you may need to book ahead, through your club or your hotel, and advance booking is recommended for weekends and greens fees continue to be very reasonable, as are the fees for caddies.
As most of the golf courses are located in the provinces, promoting golf also furthers the TAT policy of ensuring that throughout the provinces.
There are many championship standard courses in Bangkok and around the city perimeter, while the neighbouring provinces of Pathom Thani to the north, Nakhon Pathom to the northwest, and Chachaoengsao to the east, each boast a number of world-class facilities
Bangkok and central region is the major rice bowl of the county, and many of the courses have been carved out of rice paddies, compensating for the flat terrain with beautiful layouts and lots of water hazards.
Some of the most famous names in golf have created impressive layouts with first-class facilities out of rocky and sandy terrain.; some cater to serious players, others fall somewhere in between. 
Golfing action is centred on Chon Buri and Pattaya; Just two hour’s drive from the capital, the area is ideal for day trips, though most courses, if they don’t have their own hotels, are within a short drive of good accommodation.
Golf in the Westerm region is centerd in the Hua hin and Cha-am area, and around the River Kwai in Kanchanaburi.
Hua Hin and Cha-am is both resort tower on the Gulf of Thailand, with excellent hotel accommodation.
The Royal Hua Hin Golf Course is the oldest course in Thailand. The weather on the coastline here is pleasant for most of the year, with cooling breezes offering respite from the sun even in the hottest months.
Kanchanburi, which like the two resort towns is around two hours by road from Bangkok, is know primarily as the site of the historic Bridge Over the River Kwai.
 Kanchanburi is becomingly known as an attractive destination for recreational golfers, with several world-class courses in picturesque settings.
The North is ideal for a golf holiday, with its long mountain ranges, wide valleys and spectacular jungle scenery within easy reach of culture rich cities, and pleasant weather year-round.
The regional capital of Chiang Mai, 700 kilometrwes from Bangkok, has the biggest number of golf courses, most with magnificent views of surrounding hills and valleys.
Chiang Rai, three hour’s drive further north, boasts a number of championship courses in picturesque settings
Golf in the Northeast is centred on the Khao Yai area in Nakhon Ratchasima, gateway to the region, about three hours’ drive from Bangkok. Khao Yai, the largest protected area in the country, enjoys the status of a National Pack.
The area is at fairly high altitude, so the weather is pleasant all year round, with temperatures averaging 7-8 degrees Celsius lower than in Bangkok. It is possible to drive to Khao Yai, enjoy a round of golf and then return to Bangkok within the day, but there is first-rate accommodation in the area if you choose to stay for a few days.
The major resort towns on the southern peninsula, know for their pristine beaches and first-class facilities, are also home to some of the best golf anywhere.
The island of Phuket off the western coast has some of the country’s coat has some of the country’s best courses, including the Blue Canyon, host to the Johnnie Walker Classic in 1994 and again in 1998.
The island of Samui has the Samui Golf Club & Driving Range, with professional golf instructor.
While spas and meditation are designed to help prevent health problems, a huge business is being generated amongst those who already nave problems, and need treatment in Thailand.
Many Thai hospitals and medical centers, which have recently been listed on The Stock Exchange of Thailand to raise funds for investment in equipment and construction, see a formidable revenue stream in attracting clients for medical check-ups. At present, the cost of getting a medical check-up in Thailand is a fraction of what it costs in more developed countries.
Language problems notwithstanding, a number of major Thai hospitals have learned the ropes of the travel business and are marketing themselves to also regular participants at international trade shows, like ITB in Berlin and the Arabian Travel Mart.
At Thailand’s more than 400 private hospitals, standards are high and costs are extremely competitive.
Little surprise then that large numbers of visitors decides to undergo surgery in the Kingdom as part of their stay at Thailand.
Whether you are after plastic surgery, lasik eye treatment or major heart surgery, you can rely on round the-clock, quality service in Bangkok and the min provincial cities and tourist centers, Seeking care on holiday is a trouble-free experience. 
Doctors and specialists can swiftly obtain patient records by satellite.
Hospitals employ staff fluent in English and who have overseas training and demand for their services from him middle East has also led to the hiring of Arabic-speaking personnel.
Indeed, the whole business of linkage between the hospitals and the travel industry took a step forward when Thai Airways International (THAI) began packaging medical check-ups as part of its Royal Orchid Holidays programme.
Thai hospital is renowned around the world, and is a fact of which the Thais are very proud.
the country gearing towards long-stay health lifestyle tourism, medical services play an important part as well.
At present, Thailand has more than 400 private hospitals scattered throughout the kingdom.
Most of the hospitals are staffed with overseas-trained doctors and a specialist who can ensure that communication is no barrier.
There are fast mobile service including helicopter and aircraft, and patients' records can be swiftly obtained via the internet in Thai hospitals.
Visitor who chooses to long-stay in Thailand can rest assured that Thailand's private hospitals are of very high standard while the fees are surprising low compared to those on the West. Foreign expatriates, executives of international corporations and embassy staff will all attest to the excellence of hospital treatment here and to its comparatively low cost.
In Thailand, whether you are contemplating a check-up pr a major medical professional procedure, you will enjoy prompt attention, immaculate comfort, highly profession staff, and friendly faces.
Thai food has become in recent years one of the world's favorite cuisines. Thai food has become in recent years one of the world's favorite cuisines.
When we speak of "Thai food ", we are in fact talking of four very distinct regions in the country, each with their own culinary traditions.
We are speaking too of the dishes created in the royal courts and palaces of Old Siam, that have been passed down through many generations of chefs, and finally into public domain.
Good food also comes up from the street level, and many of Thailand's most popular dishes can be found at the smallest food stalls and restaurants.
The influence of China, India, Malaysia and other neighbouring countries, so all these different factors come together under the label "Thai food", and you will find them in varying degrees at any Thai restaurant you care to visit, anywhere in the world.
One of the most distinctive aspects of the cuisine is its use of herbs and spices; With regard to the spices, some Thai dishes are very hot, but by no means all of them.
The herbs have another function, in addition to providing flavour, in that they all have to varying degrees various medical and therapeutic benefits.
Thailand has a long history, going back to ancient times, of the use of herbs for medical purpose, and this in turn has permeated the ways of cooking and preparing food.
Coupled with its low-fat qualities and its essential freshness, this helps make thai food one of the healthiest anywhere.
Another important aspect about Thai food is the hospitality and friendiness, the sheer enjoyment of good companionship and of eating that is such a powerful element of the Thai personality.
Sharing a meal is an important part of the day for any Thai person, and meal are very seldom taken alone, that is why all the dishes are generally served at once during Thai meal, and why there is a communal spoon placed alongside each dish for people to help themselves and to serve others.
A Thai meal ideally is a communal affair, principally because the greater the number of dinners the greater the number of dishes that can be sampled.
Diners choose what ever they require from share dishes and generally add it to their own plate of rice.
All the dish are serve simultaneously, or nearly so, The object is to archive a harmonious blend of the spicy, the subtle, the sweet and sour, and a meal is meant to be equally satisfying to the eye, nose and palate.
Thailand is blessed with many varieties of plants, herbs and spices which ensure s balanced diet.
Today, visitors can both relish classic Thai menus and the benefits of a natural diet, and study the art of Thai cooking at several specialist schools in Bangkok and major beach resorts.
The Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya or Ayutthaya is one of Thailand's historical and majestic highlights.
Serving as the Thai capital for 417 years (1350 1767: Kingdom of Ayutthaya), it was once glorified as one of the biggest cities in Southeast Asia.
During the 17th century, most foreign visitors to Ayutthaya, traders or diplomats alike, claimed Ayutthaya to be the most illustrious and glittering city that they had ever visited.
The map of Ayutthaya published in 1691 by Simon de la Loubere in Du Royaume De Siam is proof of such recognition.
The Kingdom of Ayutthaya reached its apex in terms of sovereignty, military might, wealth, culture, and international commerce in the 16th century when the Kingdoms territory was extended far beyond present-day Laos, Cambodia, and Myanmar. Cambodia and Myanmar.
Ayutthaya even had diplomatic relations with Louis XIV of France and was courted by Dutch, Portuguese, English, Chinese and Japanese merchants.
Visitors can explore and appreciate Thai history in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, which is situated only 86 kilometers north of Bangkok.
Visitors to Ayutthaya can marvel at its grandeur reflected through numerous magnificent structures and ruins concentrated in and around the city island surrounded by Maenam Chao Phraya, Maenam Pa Sak and Maenam Lopburi.
More importantly,Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Historical Park, an extensive historical site in the heart of Ayutthaya city, has been included in UNESCO's World Heritage list since 13 December, 1991.
The Kingdom of Ayutthaya was built and developed in leaps and bounds.
The ruins in Ayutthaya that survived the test of time embody both the glorious and ignominious stories of the Kingdom.
Ancient capital of the Kingdom of Ayutthaya, founded in 1350 by King U-Thong, had thirty three kings of different dynasties and reached its peak in the middle of the18th century.
A magnificent city with three palaces and over 400 magnificent temples on an island threaded by canals Ayutthaya was truly an impressive city that attracted both Europeans and Asians.
After a 15-month siege the Kingdom of Ayutthaya was conquered and completely destroyed by the Burmese in 1767.
When King Taksin the Great finally liberated the Kingdom, a new dynasty was established and the capital was moved to Thonburi.
The seal of Ayutthaya depicts a conch on a pedestal tray placed in a small castle under a Mun tree.
According to legend, King U-Thong, founder of the Kingdom of Ayutthaya, discovered a beautiful conch buried in the ground being prepared for the establishment of the seat of his Kingdom.
Today, there are but groups of crumbling ruins and rows of headless Buddhas where once an empire thrived.
The temple compounds are still awe-inspiring even in disrepair and a visit here is memorable and a good beginning for those drawn to the relics of history.
 The architecture of Ayutthaya is a fascinating mix of Khmer (ancient Cambodian style) and early Sukhothai style.
Some cactus-shaped obelisks, called prang, denote Khmer influence and look something like the famous towers of Angkor Wat.
For new arrivals who had limited their visit to Bangkok, similarities may be noted with the riverside Wat Arun, an 18th-century structure that was built in the so-called Ayutthaya style, a melding of Sukhothai Buddhist influences and Hindu-inspired Khmer motifs.
Ayutthaya is administratively divided into 16 districts: Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Ban Phraek, Bang Ban, Bang Pahan, Bang Pa-in, Amphoe Bang Sai, Bang Sai, Lat Bua Luang, Maha Rat, Nakhon Luang, Phachi, Phak-Hai, Sena, Tha Rua, Uthai and Wang Noi.
Phetchaburi, locally known by Thais as Muang Phetch, is located 160 kilometers south of Bangkok.
One of Thailands central region provinces, Phetchaburi is situated on the western shore of the Gulf of Thailand with an overall area of approximately 6,225 square kilometers.
Phetchaburi’s terrains throughout the western border, where Tanaosri Range lies as a natural border between Thailand and Myanmar, are mountainous dense jungles.
A very old city which used to be an important royal fort town, Phetchaburi had been given several names such as, Phripphri, Phripphli or Phetchaphli.
Some historians have gone as far as to say that Phetchaburi could have been named in Indian style, as the Indian influence in those days day was strong.
Others put forward the idea that the name Phetchaburi might have originated from Maenam Phetch the most important river of the town.
Whatever the assumptions are, the fact that Phetchaburi is an ancient city with a very long history is undeniable and this has been proven by many archaeological findings which could be dated back to the Dvaravati Period.
During Sukhothai and Ayutthaya Kingdoms, Phetchaburi was a strategic royal fort in the west.
Only a lineage of Kings had the rights to rule this historical city; that is why Phetchaburi has been called by some scholars as the "Living Ayutthaya" as the town shares many similar things to the City of Ayutthaya.
The prosperity of the Ayutthaya Kingdom can be seen and appreciated in Phetchaburi's wealth of fine old temples.
the Rattanakosin Era, Phetchaburi has changed its character to a town of charming beauty, with peaceful seaside resorts and superb natural reserves.
The three Kings of the Rattanakosin Period, King Rama IV, V, and VI established their retreats here and they built the three palaces namely Phranakhonkhiri, Phraramrajanivet, Phrarajnivesmarugadayawan in Phetchaburi thus, Phetchaburi is also known as Muang Sam Wang (the city of the three Palaces).
The province is also well known for its splendid historical park, ancient temples, wonderful beaches and caves, as well as a great variety of local and fresh seafood.
Phetchaburi also has a popular resort town, Cha-am which is the premier beach resort in the province.