All rates listed in this website are published rates, furnished by the respective hotels.
As most hotels have promotional rates available from time to time, we recommend that you check directly with the hotel before making any reservations.
We strongly advise you to make advance reservations to avoid disappointment.
Most major credit cards are accepted and you may be required to leave a credit card imprint or number upon check-in.
Rates are quoted in Singapore Dollars and maybe subject to a 10% service charge, 5% Goods and Services Tax (GST) and 1% Cess
If you arrive in Singapore without prior hotel reservations, the SHA counters at the Singapore Changi Airport can help you with hotel bookings.
Daily opening hours of SHA counters at Terminal 1East Counter: 1000 hrs – 2330 hrs West Counter: 24 hours.
You can reach every corner of the island with Singapore’s modern public transportation system.
Taxis are abundant and affordable, the bus network and Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) rail system are both efficient and reliable.
Detailed information on bus routes, MRT stations and fares can be found in the TransitLink Guide, a copy of which can be purchased at bus interchanges, MRT Stations and major bookstores.
Another convenient way to travel to and from Singapore Changi Airport is to take the MaxiCab, a six-seater taxi shuttle service operating daily from 0600 hrs to midnight. 
The shuttle service stops at Concorde Hotel Singapore, Crown Prince Hotel Singapore, Excelsior Peninsula Hotel, and Marina Mandarin Singapore.
The shuttle offers a flexible routing system between Singapore Changi Airport and almost all hotels within the city.
Bookings can be made at the service counters at the airport’s arrival hall.
Although it is not a practice to tip, you may wish to do so for excellent service, on top of the service charge levied.
Most hotels offer in-room International Direct Dial (IDD) telephone services.
However, some hotels may charge a minimum 30-cent successful call transaction surcharge.
As there are different IDD service providers in Singapore, rates and access codes are dependent on the service provider used by hotel.
Generally, local calls are charged at 10 cents for every three minutes.
To make your visit to Singapore a truly memorable experience, please contact your nearest Singapore Tourism Board (STB) office for complimentary brochures and other tourist information.
Butterfly Park & Insect KingdomWith more than 3,000 species of buttefly and insect specimens, it is one of the world’s largest collections.
Butterfly Park & Insect KingdomOpen: 9am – 6.30pm daily (last entry 6pm).
Butterfly Park & Insect Kingdom’S admission: Adult $10 / Child $6.
Fly, flap, flutter, float… With over 9,000 feathered friends from 600 species, Jurong BirdPark is one of Asia Pacific’s most impressive bird parks.
As the sun sets, a different world comes to life in Singapore. 
At the Night Safari, you can look a rhinoceros in the eye, hear the howls of a pack of striped hyenas or watch giraffes glide serenely across the plain in the still of the night.
Singapore Zoo, tired of having the usual breakfast? Then feast with an orang utan, the Oriental small-clawed otter, or even the reticulated python!
Situated on Sentosa, Underwater World is a dream haven which showcases the awe-inspiring beauty of a whole different world beneath the seas.
Asian readers of TIME Magazine have again voted Singapore as their favourite business city announced on 5 Dec 2005.
This is the fifth year running that Singapore has clinched the accolade.
Singapore’s MICE (meetings, incentive travel, conventions and exhibitions) facilities were also voted the best in Asia for the second year in a row.
Singapore’s Changi Airport was ranked by the magazine’s readers as their favourite Asian airport, while Singapore Airlines came out tops in the airline category.
Singapore Airlines won recognition at The World Travel Awards, recognised as the world's most prestigious travel industry award, held on 13 November 2005. Award winners were based solely on the result of a world-wide poll of 156,000 travel industry professionals in more than 140 countries.
Voting ran from May through September 2005 with a record-breaking number of more than two million ballots cast online.
Other awards won include:Asia's Leading First Class Airline: Singapore Airlines
Singapore's Leading Hotel: Raffles Hotel Singapore's Leading Spa Resort: The Sentosa Resort & Spa.
It was announced in Aug 2005 that Singapore was ranked 5th in the top ten international meeting city in 2004 by the Union of International Associations.
Accolades won by Singapore in the conventions industry include Top Convention city in Asia and the Third Top Convention City in the World by International Congress and Convention Association in May 2005.
Singapore was the only country to receive two Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) Worldwide Awards for its new arts venue, the Esplanade - Theatres on the Bay, and the 56-apartment Lincoln Modern which features split-level accommodation.
The Awards, presented on 17 Jun 2005, recognised high architectural standards and their contribution to the local environment.
The Esplanade's acclaimed acoustics system has impressed many international artistes and audiences.
Singapore won several awards in the Quorum Awards 2004 announced in April 2005 by the Quorum Magazine, a bi-monthly magazine showcasing the best of conference, meeting, exhibitions and incentive opportunities for the MICE industry.
Based on a poll of over 900 readers, the Quorum Awards have been running for 10 years.
Read by buyers of meetings and events, corporate associations, government bodies and those involved in the planning of business events, the Quorum Magazine has a distribution of 11,586 per issue, of which 1,900 copies are distributed to Asia, Middle East, NZ and the South Pacific.
Singapore has been voted the Best Business City in the World for the fifth year running by readers of the Business Traveller Asia-Pacific magazine.
Singapore pipped Hong Kong and London to the top spot in the Best Business City category in the annual poll of the magazine's subscribers, comprising frequent travellers based mostly in the Asia-Pacific region.
Singapore took top spot as most affordable tourist shopping destination in Asia Pacific according to the results from a comparative study by Euromonitor International on retail pricing in eight leading shopping destinations in the Asia Pacific region.
For those who love to travel and cook, pick up a culinary tip or two at some of the culinary academies in Singapore.
Whether it is local, Asian, Middle Eastern or European cuisine, there's something for everyone, and we are sure this will spice up your travel adventure in Singapore.
Shermay's Cooking School is where cookbook author, Shermay, teaches cooking in her own demonstration kitchen.
Although the main focus of her school is to teach Nonya cuisine based on her grandmother's traditional recipes, other classes such as French cuisine, home-style Chinese and desserts are also taught.
Classes are designed to make cooking easy and fun for novice as well as advanced chefs, so students of any culinary ability are welcome
At-sunrice is a culinary centre dedicated to promoting pan-Asian cuisine, culinary skills and craft ware.
Offering cooking demonstration and tasting classes to actual hands-on cooking classes, at-sunrice showcases the richness of Asian cuisine through hands-on education, exposure and enjoyment.
Situated at Fort Canning Park, the academy offers a leisurely and fun environment for experiential learning for tourists, business travellers, culinary and hospitality college students and locals alike.
 Pick from a variety of short courses such as "quick cooking for dinner parties", "Asian cooking class" and "survival cooking for teenagers and children".
At-sunrice is located at Fort Canning Centre, Fort Canning Park.
Besides being poised to make its culinary stand as a fine dining bistro, the Coriander Leaf strives to establish itself as a centre for different food-related activities, namely a culinary school.
Coriander Leaf emphasises home cooking.
The half-day culinary courses in a studio setting highlight the best in South Asian, South-East Asian, Middle Eastern and fusion cooking.
Coriander Leaf Cooking Studio is located at 3A Merchant Court, #02-12 River Valley Road, Clarke Quay.
Nestled amid the lush greenery of Wessex Estate off Portsdown Road, Palate Sensations aims to offer unique and all-encompassing holistic classes and workshops that are not just cuisine-based.
Palate Sensations hopes to offer students more than just culinary knowledge and skill through its classes and workshops.
Palate Sensations’ extensive and different classes are in-depth, educational but fun, simple and fuss-free as well.
Classes run the gamut of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Anti-Aging Workshop which imparts the knowledge of cooking with Chinese herbs, The Art of Chinese Tea Making, to Yoga Health Foods, Spa Cuisine, wine appreciation workshops and cuisine-based classes with a twist, such as Indian Finger Foods and Lazy Sunday Brunch cooking.
Palate Sensations is located at 1 Westbourne Road, #03-05 (entrance via Whitchurch Road, off Portsdown Road and opposite Col Bar)
More than a cooking school, the prestigious Raffles Culinary Academy also conducts lifestyle classes covering a range of topics such as wines and etiquette, how to plan a party, home dining, as well as lessons on oyster and foie gras appreciation.
The classes are introductory and recreational in nature, each lasting two to four hours.
Raffles Culinary Academy is located at Raffles Hotel, 1 Beach Road.
If you are looking for cooking classes in the comfort of a Singapore home, Cookery Magic is your choice.
Cookery Magic offers a wide variety of classes in Malay, Indian, Mediterranean, Vegetarian and baking amongst many others.
Located at one of the crossroads of the world, Singapore's strategic position has helped it grow into a major centre for trade, communications and tourism.
Singapore’s geographical location is 136.8 km north of the equator, between latitudes 103 degrees 38' E and 104 degrees 06' E.
Singapore is linked to Malaysia by two causeway bridges, and the key islands of the Riau archipelago of Indonesia are just a quick ferry trip away.
Thailand and the Philippines are a short plane journey away.
Singapore, with an airport served by more than 69 airlines, is very much the gateway to Southeast Asia.
Boat Quay is one of the best spots in Singapore for alfresco dining.
Once Singapore’s busiest port in the 1960s, it has been transformed into a popular hangout for locals, expatriates and tourists, with chic cafes, high-end restaurants, yuppie pubs and designer galleries.
Situated in the compound of an old girls’ convent school, CHIJMES today is one of Singapore’s premier wine and dine destinations.
Clarke Quay is Singapore's only riverside festival village combining dining, shopping and entertainment.
On the 23,000 square-metre site are five blocks of building housing and shophouses, restored to their original 19th century style.
Far East Square is heaven for foodies! The award-winning architectural aesthetics, and restaurants, bars and cafés attract both tourists and locals.
Just off Holland Road and outside the Orchard Road area, the Dempsey enclave is no longer only known for its antique, teak furniture shops and carpet dealers.
Foreign motorists are required to pay tolls and a Vehicle Entry Permit (VEP) charge at the checkpoints when they drive into Singapore.
Payments have to be made using an electronic smartcard called the Autopass Card.
Autopass Cards are sold at the primary clearance/immigration booths or VEP/Tolls office at Singapore checkpoints.
Motorists are required to produce valid road tax discs and insurance certificates for their cars when purchasing the Autopass Card.
VEP fees are charged at SGD 20 per day, Monday to Friday (from 0200 hrs to 1700 hrs).
There are no VEP charges on Saturdays, Sundays, all Singapore Public Holidays, and weekdays from 1700 hrs to 0200 hrs.
Car drivers must pay toll charges on arrival and departure from the Tuas Checkpoint (SGD 3.70 per trip) but only on departure at the Woodlands Checkpoint (SGD 1.20 per trip).
On the other hand, motorcyclists are not charged at the Woodlands Checkpoint.
However, they must pay SGD 0.60 when departing and/or arriving into Singapore via the Tuas Checkpoint.
All motorists driving into the city or travelling on certain major roads and expressways are required to pay an Electronic Road Pricing (ERP) fee during the ERP operating hours.
ERP is a scheme to help keep Singapore roads congestion-free.
For foreign motorists intending to pass through ERP-priced roads during its operational hours, they can either choose to install or rent an In-Vehicle Unit (IU) to pay ERP fees.
For those who do not wish to rent or install an IU, the option of paying a fixed ERP fee is available whereby, regardless of the number of times one passes an ERP gantry, SGD 5 will be deducted per day.
This will be paid together with the VEP and toll charges via the Autopass card when departing from Singapore.
This fixed fee scheme started on from 1 September 2003 onwards and is only applicable for those who do not have an IU installed in their foreign-registered cars.
As you step into Little India, be prepared for an overpowering of the senses.
First, you will be greeted by the strong, heady scent of spices and jasmine garlands, followed by the treasure trove of silverware, brassware, ethnic jewelry and colourful silk saris, dazzling to behold in Little India.