A three-storied building, the main attraction is the traditional kalari - the arena for practicing the art, built 10 ft below ground level.
ISMA is also a renowned healing centre where the traditional kalarichikitsa - an exclusive branch of medicine - has been practiced for years.
The rare collection of olagranthas - palm leaf manuscripts also makes it a place with historical value.
Kovalam Beach is designed in the English Gothic Style, was built in 1878.
The main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surmounted by statues representing Justice and Mercy.
Beautiful Kovalam, endowed with a sheltered bay making it safe and pleasant to swim in during the off-monsoon months is no doubt, one of the best places to be.
Beautiful Kovalam, endowed with a sheltered bay making it safe and pleasant to swim in during the off-monsoon months is no doubt, one of the best places to be.
Food, rest, Ayurvedic massages and long walks with the inevitable shopping will make your visit here memorable and a true vacation.
Celebrated in August/September, Onam is one Kerala's most important festivals.
Onam generates a lot of excitement and the city wears its heart on its sleeve during this time.
Flowers are arranged in delightful patterns in everyone's front yards and there are cultural programmes held all over the place.
Every local temple is lit up enhancing the beauty of already lovely structure.
The celebrations culminate in a colorful carnival that attracts both locals and tourists alike.
A platform for some of India's traditional classical dance forms, the dance festival is annually held from 21st to 27th February at the Nishagandhi Open Air Theatre in the Kanakakunnu Palace grounds.
From Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Kathakali, Kuchipudi, Manipuri, Mohiniattam to Odissi, Nishagandhi Dance Festival is a unique opportunity to be a part of grace and elegance in so many different forms.
A lovely and unique idea, the Gramam is held from 14th to 23rd January.
An entire Kerala village is recreated on the beach during this exotic 10-day long festival held at Kovalam.
The premises of the nalukettu that spring up overnight become the venue of the fair, and highlight the traditional arts and crafts of the state.
Held from 5th to 11th April on the Kanakakunnu Palace grounds, famous hotels from all across Kerala take part in Flavour Food Festival.
There is intense competition where the participating hotels lay out a feast showcasing cuisine from all over the world.
 If you are a foodie, Flavour Food Festival is your favorite fantasy come true.
Trivandrum is well connected by major state and national highways to the rest of Southern India.
Trivandrum is an important International gateway of South India with few direct flights from West Asia, Sri Lanka and Maldives.
Indian Airlines and Jet Airways both connect Trivandrum with the rest of the country with frequent flights from Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai.
M adhya Pradesh is India's largest state and the geographical heartland of the country.
Most of the state is a high palateau and in summer it can be very dry and hot.
Virtually all phases of Indian history have left their mark on Madhya Pradesh, historically known as Malwa.
There are still many pre - Aryan Gond and Bhil tribal people in the state, but Madhya Pradesh is overwhelmingly Indo-Aaryan with the majority of the people speaking Hindi and following Hinduism.
Some of Madhya Pradesh's attractions are - Kajhuraho and Kanha National Park (famous for its tigers).
Madhya Pradesh city is famous for the Gwalior Fort.
The invincible sandstone fortress dominates the Madhya Pradesh, With magnificent outer walls and beautiful palaces inside. 
Man Mandir Palace is built by Raja Mansingh with vast halls and carved stone screens.
Gujari Mahal is a marvel of 15th century architecture; the palace was Raja Mansingh's gift to his favourite queen Mriganayani.
Sas Bahu Ka Mandir and Teli Ka Mandir, two graceful temples dedicated to lord Vishnu, in a unique blend of architectural styles. 
Jai Vilas Palace and Museum is currently the residence of the royal Scindia family; the palace is an Italianate structure with an imposing Durbar Hall. Decorated with tapestries and antique furniture.
Tansen's Tomb is the memorial to the legendary singer who was one of the 'nine jewels' in court of emperor Akbar.
You can also drive past Vidhan Sabha, Tagore Memorial and The National Archives.
Bhojpur was founded by Raja Bhoj and has the ruins of a Shiva Temple.
Visit the Kanch Mandir, Jain Shrine worked in glass beads, Lal Bagh Palace and the New Palace.
The world famous Khajuraho temples were built by the Chandela kings between 950 AD and 1050 AD.
The most important are the Chaunset Yogini Temple dedicated to Goddess Kali , The Mahadev Temple , Chitragupta or Bharatji Temple with a lovely image of 11 headed Vishnu, Vishvanath and Nandi Temples, Lakshmana Temple, Visha Temple of Shiva, which is the largest and most typical of temples.
Visit the Eastern group of temples that consist of the Parasvanath Temple - the only Jain Temple surviving at Khajuraho and have excellent sculptures on the outer walls of the Sanctum, the Javeri Temple dedicated to Vishnu.
The other temples in this group are those dedicated to Brahma, Yamuna and Adinath.
The city of joy is famed for stories of the love of King Baz Bahadur, for his consort, Rani Rupmati.
Mandu, originally the capital of the Hindu Parmar Kings in the 13th century it was later captured by the Sultans of Malwa.
See the palaces, baths, pavilions, each an architectural gem in the Afghan style, mosques and tombs of great beauty.
Sanchi Great Stupa, the oldest stone structure in India, the stupa has magnificently carved gateways or toranas.
Amongst the finest examples of Buddhist art Sanchi is the one.
The four gateways are each worth studying. Ashoka Pillar: Lies near the southern gateway.
One of the finest examples of Ashokan pillars, Gupta Temple, 5th century AD temple is one of the earliest known examples of temple architecture in India.
68 kms from Bhopal, Sanchi has the distinction of having the finest specimens of almost all Buddhist architectural forms, Stupa, Chaitya, Temples and Monasteries dating from 3rd century BC.
156 square kms in area, the Madhav National Park of Shivpuri is open throughout the year. 
With a varied terrain of wooded hills, it offers abundant opportunities of sighting a variety of wildlife.
The predominant species that inhabits the park is the deer, the commonest of them being the dainty chinkara, the Indian gazelle and the chital.
In Madhav National Park other common species are nilgai, sambar, blackbuck, sloth bear, leopard and the langur. 
Ujjain is one of the holiest and oldest cities of India and was an important place, during the reign of Ashoka , in spreading Buddhism. Famous for its Jyotirlinga shrine at Onkareshwar , it is one of the seven sacred cities of India .
Once in 12 years, the mammoth 'Kumbh Mela' festival is held in Ujjain.
The ancient shrine of Mahakala is among its attraction.
Orchha was the capital of the Bundela Rajputs between 1531 and 1783.
The palaces and temples built by Bundela Rajputs retain much of their pristine perfection.
Some of the palaces were decorated with painted murals which represent the finest flowering of the Bundela School of painting. 
Jehangir Mahal, within the fort complex built in the 17th century to commemorate the visit of Emperor Jehangir.
Jehangir Mahal’s strong lines are counter - balanced by delicate chhatris and trellis work. 
Raj Mahal, the interior of the palace is painted with boldly colorful murals on a variety of religious themes. 
Ram Raja Temple, with soaring spires, an unusual temple that was once a palace, here Lord Rama is worshipped as king. 
Chaturbhuj Temple is built on a massive stone platform; the temple is reached by a steep flight of stairs. 
Laxmi Narayan Temple’s interiors contain the most exquisite of Orchha's wall paintings. 
Rai Praveen Mahal is set in landscaped gardens, a brick palace for the poetess and musician Rai Praveen, who captivated Raja Indramani in the 17th century.
Bhopal on the main line is connected by rail to major cities in India.
Regular bus services connect Bhopal with Sanchi, Indore, Ujjain, Mandu and Pachmarhi.
Kanha National Park (which is now officially known as Kanha Tiger Reserve) is located in the Maikal range, the eastern sector of the Satpura Hills of the Central Indian Highlands.
The park lies 160 km (100 miles) southeast of Jabalpur in the state of Madhya Pradesh. 
The name Kanha itself may be derived from kanhar, the local term for the clayey soil in the valley bottoms, or from Kanva, a holy man who once lived there in a forest village.
Two river valleys are prominent features of the park's topography: the Banjar in the west and the Halon in the east.
Both these rivers are tributaries of the Narmada, which flows through the district headquarters town of Mandla, 64 km (40 miles) to the northwest of the park's western entrance.
Kanha's valleys are enclosed by hills topped with plateaux, locally called dadar.
For management purposes, the park is divided into 5 ranges: Kisli, Kanha, and Mukki in the western block, and Bhaisanghat and Supkhar in the eastern sector.
Within Kisli, Kanha, and Mukki ranges, certain roads and areas are also closed to tourists.
As of this writing (mid-1998), the percentage of the Kanha National Park 's core area open to visitors (227 km2) is about 25%.
The Kanha National Park is served by an extensive network (a little over 700 km) of generally well-maintained roads.
The Kanha National Park is open daily from 1 November to 30 June, although management reserves the option to close earlier if the rains begin before the end of June.
The opening hours of Kanha National Park are scheduled to accord roughly with the seasonal variations in climate, as well as with the length of the day at different seasons.
In Kanha National Park is always a mid-day break, so that employees may eat lunch and rest and the animals may have a respite, too.
Built around 1000 A.D., the temples of Khajuraho (Kha-ju-ra-ho) are India's immortal gift of sensual love to the world.
Khajuraho’s divine sculptures are a tribute to life itself, embodying its colorful, joyous, and yet sublime essence.
Once guarded by swaying date palm trees, which gave the city of Khajuraho its name, the city is a study in art and sculpture.
Indeed, the Chandela Temples form the centre of Khajuraho with its myriad graceful forms that continue to evoke shock, surprise, awe and admiration among a thousand other feelings.
An outstanding example of Indo-Aryan architecture, the art on the temple walls is an elegant combination of intricacy and simplicity.
The Khajuraho city traces its origin to the 10th century when it was the bastion of the Chandela dynasty.
The Khajuraho of today is more familiar to today's monuments to commercialization - hotels, restaurants and shops - signs of ordinary civilization.
The past with all its grandeur, in the form of the temples gaze benignly at a city that continues to thrive because of what its rulers gave it.
Of course, the city comes alive every year during the Dance Festival in March, when the maestros of classical dance, Birju Maharaj and Kelucharan Mohapatra and their disciples perform against the dramatic temple backdrop.
Beyond doubt, Khajuraho is not an Indian destination you can afford to miss.
Chandela architecture was obviously at its peak when the temples were built.
Depicting scenes of gods and goddesses, valiant warriors, animals and people, the sculptures and carvings are often shown engaged in acts of love.
This portrayal of sensuality and erotica, while awing some and shocking others, not once is vulgar.
The beauty of this art in fact enhances the purity of temple art forms.
The temples are a series of towers each higher than the other, culminating in a soaring shikhara.
It is amazing that these blocks have simply been fitted together since at the time of being built, there was no mortar.
The Lakshmana Temple, intricate in its workmanship, the Kandariya Mahadev, largest and architecturally the most perfect, where the interior has 872 spectacularly carved statues, the Mahadeva Temple is the smallest; the Devi Jagadamba Temple was first dedicated to Vishnu, then Parvati and finally to Kali.