Pattaya's name was originated from the march of Phraya Tak (later known as King Taksin the Great) and his followers from Ayutthaya to Chanthaburi  just before the fall of the Ayutthaya Kingdom to the Burmese invaders in 1767.
When Phraya Tak's army arrived in the vicinity of what is Pattaya today, he encountered the troops of Nai Klom who tried to intercept him.
When the two leaders met face to face, Nai Klom was awed by Phraya Tak's dignified manner and his army's strict discipline, thereby surrendering without a fight.
The place where the two armies confronted each other was later called Thap Phraya, which means the Army of the Phraya.
This was later changed to Phatthaya, which happens to mean the wind blowing from the southwest to the northeast at the beginning of the rainy season.
Today the spelling of the name has been simplified to Pattaya.
For centuries, Pattaya was a small fishing village almost cut off from the outside world.
But a big change occurred on 29 April 1961 when the first group of about 100 American servicemen who would join the Vietnam War arrived in Pattaya for relaxation.
Soon, sleepy Pattaya became Thailand's premier and most successful beach resort, which annually attracts hundreds of thousands of pleasure-seeking visitors.
A full range of accommodations from super deluxe hotels to bungalows and mini-pocket guesthouses replaced fishermen’s huts along the beach.
Fishing vessels were adapted to become tourist boats and swimmers and sunbathers from various parts of the world frequented the quiet powdery golden beaches.
Places of nighttime entertainment have also sprung up and are popular among international tourists.
Pattaya currently integrates the delights of a 1st class beach resort, city-like dining, shopping and night entertainment facilities with more than 300 assorted hotels, thousands of shops, restaurants and bars.
There are an array of sports and recreational activities including beaches, golf courses, tennis courts, go-kart, gyms for working out, weight lifting and Thai-boxing gear.
Pattaya offers a broad range of things to do. During the day, one may enjoy riding elephants or driving humble automatic mini-bikes, monstrous motorcycles, or even monster multicolored convertible Jeeps.
Others go for shooting firearms, scuba diving and surfing, deep-sea fishing, speed boats, scooters, water-skiing, parasailing, or aerial sports such as gliding ultra-lights and flying motor-propelled gliders.
On the other hand, at night, there are restaurants, bars, theaters, cabaret shows, and night clubs, bowling halls, billiard & snooker clubs, discos, sauna & massage parlors, not to cite its absolutely incredible shopping which is available non-stop both day-and-nights.
Pattaya’s exotic beach resort welcomes approximately 5 million visitors a year.
The friendly and hospitable Thai nature boosts its promotion, frequently bringing back the repeat visitors and constantly increasing the number of newcomers.
Pattaya city is located on the eastern coast of the country at latitude 13 N and longitude 101 E in the area of Chon Buri province.
Pattaya is 147 kilometers from Bangkok and lies parallel to Sukhumvit Road on its east and the coastline on its west.
Pattaya occupies an area of 208.1 sq. km. that is divided into 53.44 sq. kilometers of land and 154.66 sq. kilometers of islands and sea. 
Pattaya’s coastline is 15 kilometers long so there is many beaches for tourists.
Pattaya has a plain on the coast with some high mountains to the south and the area on the east slopes down towards the sea on the west. 
The provincial capital is a fishing port with a superb location beside beautiful curving bays and amongst steep mountain outcrops. 
About 100 kilometres to the north of Prachuap Khiri Khan is Hua Hin, Thailand's first beach resort which is renowned for golf and spa. 
Between Hua Hin and Prachuap Khiri Khan are Pran Buri with many boutique resorts and Khao Sam Roi Yot National Park with soaring peaks, numerous caves and exotic bird life.
281 kilometers south of Bangkok, Hua Hin, which literally means stone head in Thai, is the oldest beach resort of the country and is still very popular.
Clean white sand, crystal clear water and a tranquil atmosphere has continued to attract tourists in search of peaceful and relaxing holidays.
The town was originally known as Ban Samoe Rieng, or Ban Laem Hin (Stony Point Village).
The construction of a railway station in the city as part of the Southern Railroad in the reign of King Rama VI resulted in making Hua Hin stand out from many quite fishing villages.
The construction of a Summer Palace of King Rama VII totally transformed the village into a high-society resort town for royalty.
Even today, the Royal Family continues to reside at the Palace of Hua Hin for part of the year.
Hua Hin's consequence came with the opening of the Railway Hotel (known today as the Sofitel Central Hotel), an elegant Victorian-style resort hotel, and also the countries first standard golf course.
A cluster of royal and high-society residences gradually became more visible resulting in the transformation of the whole village into the first seaside resort of the country, where visitors could enjoy swimming, fishing, and golfing in the country's first standard golf course.
Today, Hua Hin is a well-established beach destination with word-class facilities coupled with a true sense of Thai hospitality.
Despite its expansive growth and development as a luxurious destination, the splendor of Hua Hin remains intact.
Remaining content in itself, Thailand's oldest seaside resort has never sought international recognition.
It has continued to provide a peaceful and relaxed sanctuary in a picturesque environment that comes with a true sense of historical identity. 
Thailand has some of the most exciting gamefishing sites in Asia especially along the Andaman seacoast of Phuket and Krabi provinces.
Marlin, sailfish, tuna, huge garoupa and every kind of shark imaginable are a boat ride from shore.
Phang-nga Bay plays host to some of the rarest species of aquatic life in the world, including the rare swimming iguana.
Over the past 15 years, deep sea fishing competitions have grown in size and popularity with Phuket and Krabi as centres for a growing fleet of contenders.
Tournaments are especially popular during the calm season between September and Mat when contenders reel in record catches of sailfish, marlin, wahoo and barracuda.
Major game fishing contests are run according to the rules of the International Game fishing Association which mandates a “catch and release” requirement for sharks, underweight fish, and billfish such as marlin and sailfish.
For game fishing, the twin islands of Racha Yai and Racha Noi, some 50 Minutes out of Phuket, offer some of the best local fishing to be had.
Sailfish, black, marlin, wahoo and tunas make this, along with excellent snorkeling, a good choice for the novice and experienced angler alike.
Power boats are also available for charter for deep-sea fishing expedition out of the Andaman Sea resorts of Phuket and Krabi.
Power cruises come fully equipped with fighting chairs and heavy tackle.
For those who just want to go along for the ride, the scenery is as breathtaking as the activities.
In Pattaya, the Bang Saray Fishing Lodge arranges boat, tackle, and guides for reasonable fees.
In the rocks south of Pattaya lurk species native to the Gulf of Thaialnd: red snapper, yellow jack, bonito, black-tipped sharks. Cobia and giant garoupers.
Khon Kaen is the commercial,administrative an educational centre of the Northeast,which is often used by travellers as a base for visiting many parts of upper Isan.
Khon Kaen National Museum houses objects from the Dvaravati period and bronze sculptures from Ban Chiang.
Kaen Nakhon Lake in the centre of town is a popular spot for picnics and dining,while Wat That on its bank features typical Isan spires.
Khon Kaen is the centre of the northeastern silk industry with numerous villages producing their own mudmee designs. 
Chonnabot is noted for its quality silks; Every December the city hosts a Silk Fair,when all the best materials are on sale. 
Unusual animals are popular in the province,with the cobra and the turtle villages high on tourist programmes.
In both villages, the residents live with their proteges,training them and putting on fascinating shows.
A dinosaur is the provincial symbol ever since remains of these great beasts were unearthed in Phu Wiang National Park,an area also famous for its flora,fauna and waterfalls.
Khon Kaen is 445 kilometres from Bangkok and has an area of about 10,886 square kilometres.
Nakhon Ratchasima, generally known as "Khorat", is Thailand's largest province situated on sprawling northeast plateau.
Nakhon Ratchasima located approximately 260 kilometers northeast of Bangkok; the city itself serves as the gateway to the lower northeastern region.
Covering an area of 25,494 square kilometers that is mainly plateaus and mountainous terrain, Khorat has fascinating traditions, charming hospitality, splendid natural scenery and awesome historical sites.
Some of the main attractions in Khorat are Khmer ruins. Scattered around the province, these products of ancient wisdom shines through time.
One of the Thailand's finest Khmer ruins can be seen here next to Mon and Lao sites.
Khorat has an abundance of natural attractions in its forests, hills, wildlife and waterfalls that are easily accessible in locations such as Khao Yai National Park.
Khorat is most well known for silk weaving (in Pak Thong Chai) and a variety of top-notch quality handicrafts such as clay pottery products of Dan Kwian.
Geographically, Nakhon Ratchasima borders on Chiyaphum and Khon Kaen Provinces in the north, Buriram Province in the east, Chiyaphum and Saraburi Provinces in the west and Nakhon Nayok and Prachin Buri Provinces in the south.
Khorat is also the largest northeastern province.
Inhabitants of the province Khorat, are mainly engaged in agricultural activities.
Khorat’s people are involves in agricultural activities that include farming of rice and other crops such as sugar cane, tapioca, corn, jute, peanuts, sesame and fruits.
There are more than 100 savings and agricultural cooperatives in the province, 35 irrigation projects and 7,122 industrial factories in Khorat.
Most of the factories in Khorat, are rice mills, tapioca product manufacturers, and industrial factories.
Khorat's most popular annual event is the Thao Suranari Festival, a celebration of Thao Suranari's victory over the Lao.
Thao Suranari Festival is held from late March to early April and features parades.
Khorat used to be the site of several ancient prehistoric communities.
Khorat used to be the site of several ancient prehistoric communities.
Initially the predominant cultural influence in the city was that of the Dvaravati culture, however, it was later replaced by the Khmer culture.
The prehistoric site of Ban Prasat is an evidence of this occurrence while traces of both the Dvaravati and Khmer cultures are scattered throughout the province, particularly at Amphur Sung Noen and Amphur Phimai.
Once an administrative and cultural center, Khorat's role today remains unchanged as it is currently the main transportation, industrial and economic hub of the Northeast.
Mu Ko Hong consists of a group of limestone islands including Ko Lao or Ko Sa Ka, Ko Lao Riam, Ko Pakka, Ko Lao La Ding and Ko Hong or Ko Lao Li Pe which is the biggest island to the south. 
The attractions on Mu Ko Hong islands include fine beaches, shallow and deep-water coral reefs and various kinds of fish while popular activities include snorkeling, scuba diving, fishing, sea-canoeing and nature studies on the 400-meter hiking trail around Ko Hong.
Mu Ko Hong is located at the edge of the Than Bok Khorani National Park, and is accessible by a 1-hour boat trip from Ao Nang.
The park entrance fee is 200 baht per person with an additional fee of 20 baht per person for camping on the island.
The park entrance fee is 200 baht per person with an additional fee of 20 baht per person for camping on the island.
Tham Chao Le a beautiful cave adorned with stalactites and stalagmites as well as prehistoric cave paintings depicting people, animals and various geometrical shapes.
Tham Chao Le cave is located to the west of Laem Sak in a bay surrounded by mountains and picturesque islands.
 To reachTham Chao Le cave, boat trip taking a 10 to 15-minute from Laem Sak.
To visit these Tham Lot Nuea and Tham Lot Tai two caves take the Ao Luk-Laem Sak route for approximately two kilometers and then take a right turn to the Bo Tho Pier.
From the pier, hire a rental boat and travel along the Tha Prang Canal for approximately 15 minutes.
After passing a mangrove swamp, you will see Tham Lot Tai a cave beneath a limestone hill with a stream flowing through narrow passages.
Tham Lot Nuea is a large cavern with meandering passages longer than those of the Tham Lot Tai, which are navigable only during low tide.
The name of this cave "Phet", which means diamonds, is derived from the sparkling stone inside the cave that produces beautiful reflections on the cave wall just like glittering diamonds.
Another attraction is a Buddha image is enshrined in front of the Tham Phet cave.
Tham Phet cave is 3 kilometers from the Ao Luk Nua market intersection, however, the best way to get there is to contact the National Park Office at Than Bok Khorani and ask for a local guide. 
Located just 500 meters from Tham Lot, the cave can only be visited by boat from Bo Tho Pier.
Tham Phi Hua To cave is in Phi Hua To Mountain which is surrounded by mangrove swamps.
There are 2 different paths inside the cave; On the left lies the shortcut to the back of the cave where the sunlight can shine through, and on the right is a path to a natural hall believed to have been a shelter for prehistoric people.
Prehistoric paintings of men, animals, human organs and numerous seashells can be seen in the Tham Phi Hua To cave.