The site India Travel Destinations offers you details of tour booking for tours to temples of Haridwar in Uttaranchal, India. 
There are quite a few temples in Haridwar that are worth a visit during your temple tours to the region. 
Haridwar in Uttaranchal, India is one of the four main Hindu pilgrimage destinations in India. Some of the important temples in Haridwar, India that you may visit during your temple tours to the region are Mansa Devi Temple, Pawan Dham Temple, Parmeshwar Mahadev Temple, Chanda Devi and Lal Mata Temple.
The Mansa Devi Temple is an ancient temple that is situated on a hill close to the main city of Haridwar, Uttaranchal, India. 
The presiding deity at the temple is called Mansa Devi and pilgrims worship the deity with coconuts, fruits, marigold garlands and incense sticks. 
It is a popular belief that those who pray with complete devotion to Mansa Devi get their wishes granted.
The Pawan Dham temple in Haridwar, Uttaranchal, India is located at a distance of 2 kilometers from the town and is known for the glasswork that is done on the temple walls. 
The Pawan Dham Temple is known for the elaborately decorated idols and is a must visit during your temple tours to Haridwar in Uttaranchal in India.
The Parmeshwar Mahadev Temple is located at a distance of 4 kilometers from the main Haridwar city in Uttaranchal, India. 
This temple has a huge stone lingam that has been made of mercury.
This temple is located on the Neel Parvat that is located on the banks of the River Ganga in Haridwar in Uttaranchal, India. 
This temple was constructed sometime in the year 1929 A.D. 
The temple is located at a distance of 3 kilometers from Chandi Ghat in Haridwar, Uttaranchal, India. 
According to legend the statue of the main deity was set up by the saint Adi Shankaracharya in the 8th century. 
Another historic site is the Gauri Shanker Temple that you can visit during your tours to the temples of Haridwar.
The Lal Mata Temple is an important tourist attraction in Haridwar, India and is quite like the temple at Vaishno Devi in Kashmir, India. 
The Lal Mata Temple is situated atop an artificial hill and has a frozen Shiva lingam.
The other places that you may visit during your temple tours to Haridwar, Uttaranchal, India are the Anandamayee Ma Ashram, Jai Ram Ashram, the Daksha Mahadev temple and the Sapt Rishi Ashram.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to Jammu and Kashmir, India. 
There are quite a few temples in Jammu and Kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the Raghunath Temples, Kheer Bhawani Temple, Sudh Mahadev Temple, Vaishno Devi, Amarnath and the Shankaracharya Temple.
The Raghunath Temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Rama. 
This temple was constructed by Maharaja Gulab Singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son Maharaja Ranbir Singh in the year 1860 A.D. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity, Lord Rama. 
The inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated.
This ancient temple is surrounded by a number of other temples that are dedicated to several Hindu deities who find a mention in the Hindu epic, Ramayana.
The Sudh Mahadev Temple in Kashmir, India is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to Kashmir, India.
 This ancient and holy temple is located close to Patnitop and is famous for the Asad Purnima Festival that is organized here annually. 
According to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the Hindu deity Lord Shiva was meditating when his consort Uma's cry shook him out of his meditation.
During your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India you must go on a tour to Vaishnodevi. Vaishnodevi is one of the most sacred Hindu pilgrimages. 
The Vaishnodevi sacred shrine is situated inside a cave on top of the Trikuta Mountains in Jammu and Kashmir, India. 
This sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from Jammu, India.
Another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India is the Amarnath shrine. 
According to legend the Hindu deity Lord Shiva narrated the secret of creation to Goddess Parvati inside this cave. 
This shrine is of immense religious importance to the Hindus. There is a huge ice lingam inside the Amarnath cave that represents the main deity.
The Kheer Bhawani Temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India.
 The Kheer Bhawani temple is the pilgrim centre of the Goddess Maharagya Devi. 
This pilgrimage is located at a distance of 14 miles from Srinagar in the Tula Mula village in Kashmir, India.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details regarding tour booking to temples to Jammu and Kashmir, India. 
There are quite a few temples in Jammu and Kashmir that are worth visiting and some of them are the Raghunath Temples, Kheer Bhawani Temple, Sudh Mahadev Temple, Vaishno Devi, Amarnath and the Shankaracharya Temple.
The Raghunath Temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Rama. 
This temple was constructed by Maharaja Gulab Singh sometime the year 1835 and was completed by his son Maharaja Ranbir Singh in the year 1860 A.D. 
This temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity, Lord Rama. 
The inner walls of this old temple are covered with gold sheets and the temple has several galleries that are ornately decorated.
This ancient temple is surrounded by a number of other temples that are dedicated to several Hindu deities who find a mention in the Hindu epic, Ramayana.
The Sudh Mahadev Temple in Kashmir, India is another important historical site that you may visit during your temple tours to Kashmir, India. 
This ancient and holy temple is located close to Patnitop and is famous for the Asad Purnima Festival that is organized here annually. 
According to popular legend this holy shrine is the place where the Hindu deity Lord Shiva was meditating when his consort Uma's cry shook him out of his meditation.
During your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India you must go on a tour to Vaishnodevi. Vaishnodevi is one of the most sacred Hindu pilgrimages. 
The Vaishnodevi sacred shrine is situated inside a cave on top of the Trikuta Mountains in Jammu and Kashmir, India. 
This sacred shrine is located at a distance of 61 kilometers from Jammu, India.
Another sacred site that you must visit during your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India is the Amarnath shrine. 
According to legend the Hindu deity Lord Shiva narrated the secret of creation to Goddess Parvati inside this cave. 
This shrine is of immense religious importance to the Hindus. 
There is a huge ice lingam inside the Amarnath cave that represents the main deity.
The Kheer Bhawani Temple is another famous temple that you should visit during your temple tours to Jammu and Kashmir, India. 
The Kheer Bhawani temple is the pilgrim centre of the Goddess Maharagya Devi.
 This pilgrimage is located at a distance of 14 miles from Srinagar in the Tula Mula village in Kashmir, India.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you details regarding temple tours to Kolkata, India. 
This site offers you relevant information about the temples in Kolkata, India and takes you on a tour to this lovely and ancient city that offers you a glimpse into the ancient past of this city with its extremely rich cultural heritage.
During your temple tours to Kolkata, India you can visit temple such as the Bakranath Temple, Bansuli Temple, Brindabanchandra Temple, Bhagwati Temple, Barakar Temples, Dakshineswar Kali Temple, Chaitanyadev Temple, Bargabhima Temple, Dhirdham Temple, Hanseswari Temple, Ekteswara Temple, Dugdheshwar Shiva Temple, Jateshwarnath Temple, Kalyaneshwari Temple, Kapil Muni Temple and the Jaya Deva Temple.
The Bakranath Temple located at Bakreswar in West Bengal, India. 
The architectural style of this ancient temple is an example of the Oriyan style of architecture. 
The Bakranath Temple is an important shrine and is quite popular for its Hot Springs. 
This huge temple is an interesting tourist site that you must visit during your temple tours to Kolkata, India.
The Bansuli Temple is located at Nannur in West Bengal, India. 
This temple site is an important tourist destination and you must visit this temple during your temple tours to Kolkata, India. 
The temple is quite like a mound and according to historical records the lowest level of this temple site was constructed during the Gupta rule.
The Brindabanchandra Temple is located at Guptipara that is very close to Kolkata, India. 
This temple has the distinction of being the largest among all the temples located in this region. 
The main temple is surrounded by a number of other small temples that are dedicated to Chaitanya Guru, the saint who was known for his love and dedication to the Hindu deity Lord Krishna.
During your temple tours to Kolkata, India you can visit the Barakar Temples at Barakar that are located very close to Asansol in West Bengal, India. 
There are four stone temples in total that reflect the North Indian Rekha architectural style.
 These temples were constructed sometime in the 13th century.
The Bhagwati Temple is located in Gourangpur close to Asansol in West Bengal, India. 
This temple is about 150 years old. The temple is a stunning piece of architecture made of bricks.
During your temple tours to Kolkata, India you can visit the Dakshineswar Kali Temple that is associated with the saint Ramakrishna Paramhansa.
Besides the above mentioned temples you could also visit other important temple sites during your temple tours to Kolkata, India and these are: a Kalna Shiva Temple located in Kalna, the Kapil Muni Temple at Diamond Harbor, Kanak Durga Temple at Midnapore, the Kiriteshwari Temple at Murhsidabad, the Lalji Temple located at Midnapore in Kolkata, India. So come and visit the temples of Kolkata in West Bengal, India.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you relevant information regarding temple tours to Madhya Pradesh in India.
Some of the most popular temples that you must visit during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh, India. 
Some of these are the Ahileshwar Temple located at Maheshwar close to Indore in Madhya Pradesh, India, Bateswara Mahadev Temple at Batesara, Bridh Kaleshwar at Ujjain, Cave Temples at Udayagiri, Chatturbhuj Temple at Gwalior, Sasbahu Temple at Gwalior, Mahakala Temple at Ujjain, Devji Temple at Ujjain, Shiva Temple at Bhojpur near Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India and the Omkareshwar Temple at Indore.
The Mahakala Temple at Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, India is an interesting temple site that you must visit during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh, India. 
This ancient temple is dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Shiva. 
The Jyotirlingam located inside the main sanctum of this temple is considered to be one of the 12 most sacred Shiva lingams in India.
 According to historical records this ancient temple was destroyed sometime in the 13th century and was later rebuilt.
Another sacred temple that you must pay a visit to during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh is the Omkareshwar Temple located at Indore in Madhya Pradesh, India. 
This ancient temple is situated on an island on the River Narmada.
The Shiva Temple located at Bhojpur in Madhya Pradesh in India is another temple that you must visit during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh in India. 
According to historical records this temple was built sometime in the 12th century.
The Govind Devji Temple located at Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, India is one temple that you must visit during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh, India.
The Sas Bahu Temple and Teli Ka Mandir in Madhya Pradesh, India are very famous tourist destinations and you must make sure that you visit these temples during your temple tours to Madhya Pradesh, India. 
This ancient temple is basically dedicated to the Hindu deity Lord Vishnu though the main theme of this temple is the relationship that a mother-in-law shares with her daughter-in-law.
The site India Travel Destinations offers you tour details for temple tours to the ancient temples of Orissa, India. 
Most of the temples in Orissa, India are known for their Indo-Aryan Nagara architectural style that apparently is distinctive of the temple architecture in Orissa, India. 
Rulers belonging to different dynasties built these temples during different points of time in history. Quite a few temples were constructed under the rule of the Nanda kings, Somavamsis, Bhaumakaras, Gangas and the Suryavamsi Gajapati kings.
Some of the important temples that you may visit during your temple tours to Orissa, India are the Jagannath Temple in Puri, Orissa, India, and the Sun Temple in Konark, Lingaraja Temple and the Mukteswara Temple in Bhubaneshwar.
The Jagannath Temple located in Puri, Orissa, India was constructed by the ruler of Kalinga, Anantavarman Chodaganga though King Ananga Bhima Deva constructed most of the temple structure that exists today. 
A large wall that is almost 20-feet high surrounds this huge temple. 
There are almost 120 shrines located inside the temple. 
The temple tower or the shikhara at the Jagannath temple is as high as 192 feet.
This massive temple has four chambers of which one hall is meant for those who practice classical music and dance forms.