The main characteristics of these mountains and islands are their steep cliffs, large caves and dwarf trees growing out of the rock crevices, like those in Phang-Nga Bay.
The island group is composed of two rocky, tree-covered islets Phi Phi Don and Phi Phi Le.
Phi Phi Don, the larger islet to the north, is well known for its fine beaches and coral formations. Above average tourist facilities and accommodations are available along two beautiful curved bays, namely Ton Sai Bay and Lodalam Bay.
Several shops at Ton Sai can arrange diving and snorkeling trips around the island or the nearby islands - Ko Phi Phi Le, Ko Yung and Ko Mai Phai.
About 2 kilometers to the south is Phi Phi Le. Contrary to Phi Phi Don, this islet is uninhabited as there is no beach area as the island descends abruptly into the sea on all sides and it is prohibited by the administrative body.
The main attraction is a large cave about 3.2 square kilometers in size known as Viking Cave derived from one of the numerous drawings on the wall which resembles a Viking ship.
Viking cave has a 10 to 15-metre high ceiling which contains many ledges inhabited by thousands of swallows, thus a bird's nest collection demonstration is a regular feature of guided tours. 
Ao Maya and Ao Lo Sama - Phi Phi Islands scenic coves are favorite snorkeling places while the sea around the islands, especially the southern part, which are deep and full of coral formations are popular diving spots.
With its emerald crystal sea, secluded beaches, mountain cliffs, colorful coral reefs and undersea life, Phi Phi is a paradise in the Andaman Sea.
The best time to visit Phi Phi Islands is from November to April, when the sea is calm.
Ko Yung, an island to the north of Ko Phi Phi Don, has a stone beach on the east and small sandy beaches amid valleys.
Ko Yung island is teeming with diverse colorful coral reefs.
Ko Phai, another island to the north of Ko Phi Phi Don and not far from Ko Yung, has spectacular beaches in the north and east of the island.
The bank of coral reefs comprised mainly of antler corals stretches from the north to the south of the island.
Phi Phi Islands which are equidistant to Phuket and Krabi Provinces can be reached by boat.
Chao Fa Pier: Passenger boats leave From Krabi, Chao Fa Pier twice daily at 10 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. The trip takes about 2.30 hours.
Ao Nang: There is one express boat trip leaving daily at 9 p.m. taking 40 min.
Many tour companies in Phuket organize one-day trips to Phi Phi Islands. Tickets can be obtained from any hotel.
Apart from marine sports, Krabi is also an ideal place for rock climbing.
Lines of sheer limestone cliffs along Tham Phranang and Rai Le beaches have challenged thousands of climbers from all over the world every year.
The levels of difficulty of the various routes vary, so even the most inexperienced climbers can experiment.
Equipment, instruction and guides are available at most lodgings for Rock climbing.
Within the Sa Kaew compound in Khao Thong Sub-district forest plantation area are eight small natural ponds which is currently a major recreational area for the local residents.
Sa Kaeo is 28 kilometers from town on the Krabi-Nai Sa route (Highway No. 4034).
Susan Hoi features a slab formed from a huge number of embedded various types of mollusks which can be dated to approximately 40 million years ago.
This shell graveyard at Ban Laem Pho was once a large freshwater swamp, the habitat of diverse mollusks.
With changes on the surface of the earth, seawater flooded the freshwater swamp and the limestone elements in the seawater enveloped the submerged mollusks resulting in a homogenous layer of fossilized mollusk shells forty centimeters thick known as Shelley Limestone.
With geographical upheavals, the limestone layer is now distributed in great broken sheets of impressive magnitude on the seashore.
One of Thailand's unseen highlights, Thale Waek is situated along Ko Dam Khwan.
As the tide recedes, the sea is gradually separated by the white sand and limestone beach that will appear to amazingly connect the two islands at low tide.
The best time to visit Thale Waek is 5 days before and after the full moon from December to beginning of May.
To visit Thale Waek, proceed on Highway No. 4034 from the city, then turn left and follow Highway No. 4202 to Ao Nang.
Tham Sadet is a beautiful cave adorned with stalactites and stalagmites is located at Ban Nong Kok, Tambon Sai Thai, 7 kilometers from town on Highway No. 4034.
"Sadet" means visit, and the use of the term in the name of the cave refers to the royal visit to the site in 1909 by the King Rama VI (at that time that Crown Prince).
The monastery is Krabi's central temple and a local gathering point during Buddhist events and weddings.
The main attraction in the central temple is an impressive reclining Buddha image.
Wat Tham Suea, which literally means tiger cave temple, is located in the Khiriwong Valley amidst lush forests and mountains with large trees over a hundred years old approximately 9 kilometers northeast of Krabi Town.
Aside from being the site of a meditation center, the compound is also a place of archaeological and historical interest as excavations have uncovered stone tools, pottery remains and Buddha footprint crafting molds.
In addition, a cave in the compound has what appears to be tiger paw prints in the stone.
Ranong is the first southern province on the western coast, located 568 kilometres from Bangkok.
Ranong is known for the long rainy period, which lasts for 8 months each year.
Ranong occupies an area of 3,298 square kilometres and is bordered by Myanmar and the Indian Ocean to the west.
Within its compact area, Ranong contains various natural attractions and is blessed with hot springs and unspoiled mangrove forests.
A mountainous and heavily forested province, Ranong is best known as fishing and trading port.
Ranong was settled by the Hokkian Chinese, and their strong influence is evident in the town.
Ranong town is a gateway to Myanmar, with colourful longboats ferrying produce and people across the narrow divide that separates the two countries.
The famous hot springs are just outside of town, where an arboretum and various first-class hotels cater to visitors eager to benefit from the medicinal properties of the mineral waters. 
Satun is a small province in the south of Thailand that borders Malaysia, facing the Andaman Sea.
Satun province possesses renowned picturesque islands with verdant forests and mountainous land.
Sutan is located 973 kilometres from Bangkok and occupies an area of 2,478 square kilometres with 80 kilometres of coastline.
Most tourists head out to the pristine islands of Tarutao National Park.
Taruatao National Park’s landscape is full of underwater peaks, excellent beaches, calm and peaceful coves, jungle and mangrove swamps.
Snorkelling can be found at Lipe island, while neighbour Adnag island is stunning with forest, hills and waterfalls.
Around Satun, there are plenty of interesting sights, including dove farms, forest parks and huge waterfall.
Thale Ban National Park is famous for its abundant wildlife, with many waterfalls and caves worth visiting.
Trang located approximately 828 kilometers from Bangkok, Trang Province covers an area of 4,941 square kilometers. 
Trang province borders on Nakhon Si Thammarat Province to the north, Satun Province and the Indian Ocean (Andaman Sea) to the south, Phatthalung Province to the east and the Indian Ocean and Krabi Province to the west.
Trang is considered a magnificent coastal province as it long, beautiful coastline stretches 199 kilometers along the Indian Ocean.
In addition, Trang province has two major rivers flowing through it, the Trang River, which originates in the Khao Luang Mountain Range and Maenam Palian from the Banthat Mountain Range.
Despite the fact that Trang City plays a key role in facilitating trade and communications to Nakhon Si Thammarat, Thailand's southern commercial hub, Trang is a province less traveled to by tourists.
It was only recently that Trang has been poised to establish itself on the international travel map.
Trang has geographical advantages similar to that of Krabi and Phang-Nga.
Trang includes breathtaking islands and astounding beaches along the coast as well as awe-inspiring inland limestone- propped mountains.
Trang province consists of an archipelago in the Andaman Sea with over 46 islands; Of these, 12 are in Amphoe Kantang, 13 in Amphoe Palian and 21 in Amphoe Sikao.
Trang has both mainland beaches and a whole string of offshore islands.
For visitors interested in light-adventure activities such as cruising coastal waters, visiting notable sights such as the enchanting Emerald Cave, which is accessible only by water, will prove to be remarkable experience in Trang.
Additional attractions include the Mu Ko Petra National Park with beaches and islands lapped by the warm waters of the Andaman Sea.
There are also wildlife sanctuaries such as Namtok Khao Chong and Khlong Lamchan Park with waterfalls, nature trails and caves in Trang province. 
For those looking for a relaxed, tranquil ambience, Trang is a perfect place to unwind amidst stunning scenery.
With an abundance of blissful attractions mixed with cultural heritage, Trang Province is truly an emerging fascinating tourist destination with numerous jungles, mountains and waterfalls.
The City also has numerous attractions. Walking around Trang City, visitors will be amazed at the mixture of Western, Chinese and Thai cultures reflected in the architecture that range from the Sino- Portuguese shop houses to the Chinese temples and shrines.
The Pan-Ya House is the local style of houses in Trang, which offers an insight into the architectural heritage of Trang town.
Trang or Muang Thap Thiang used to be a port engaged in foreign trade.
Trang first city where rubber was planted after Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi brought it from Malaysia in 1899.
Trang has a total area of 4,941 square kilometers and is divided into 10 districts (Amphoe) and 1 sub-district (King Amphoe); Amphoe Muang, Amphoe Kantang, Amphoe Huai Yot, Amphoe Yan Ta Khao, Amphoe Palian, Amphoe Sikao, Amphoe Wang Wiset, Amphoe Na Yong, Amphoe Ratsada, and King Amphoe Hat Samran.
The best time to visit Trang is between December and May.
As it is located on the same coastline as Phuket and Krabi Provinces, Trang Province is also influenced by the monsoon.
The temperature of Trang province is generally warm all year round with an average temperature varying from 20 Celsius to 36 Celsius.
In April, the daytime temperature of Trang is highest and it is also the hottest period of the year.
In Trang the rainy season, which is from May to September, has rains and short downpours during the daytime.
The monsoon period comes in Trang, from September to November and then from December onwards the weather generally becomes more pleasant.
Khao Pina unique mountain is hollow all the way to the top resembling an overturned pan.
At the foot of the mountain is Wat Khao Pina, a temple where a reclining Buddha image is enshrined at the cave entrance.
Khao Pina mountain is in Tambon Na Wong, 45 kilometers from the city on Phetkasem Road, there is a 2 kilometer road which branches out from there to the mountain.
Namtok Ton Te waterfall is located 45 kilometers from the city; Originating in the Banthat Mountain Range, the waterfall drops 320 meters down to the rocks.
To reach Namtok Ton Te waterfall, take Trang-Phatthalung Road for about 17 kilometers, turn right onto the Ban Kachong-Ban Hat Lao Road (Highway No. 4124) for about 27 kilometers and finally make a left turn and proceed for another 1 kilometer
Tha-le Song Hong (lake of Two Rooms) located to the northwest of the province is a large lake surrounded by limestone hills. 
A mountain in the middle of the lake divides it in half resulting in the name Thale Song Hong.
With an awesome view, crystal clear water which allows perfect viewing of the many fishes underneath, the lake is a perfect spot for fun and relaxation.
Thale Song Hong is in Tambon Bang Di, 8 kilometers from the district center.
To get Tha-le Song Hong, take Phetkasem Road (HuaiYot-Krabi) to Ban Phraek, then turn right and proceed for 12 kilometers.
Tha-le Song Hong National Boy Scouts Camp is situated near Thale Song Hong in Tambon Bang Di.
Covering an area of 2,080 square kilometers, Tha-le Song Hong National Boy Scouts Camp was established by the Department of Physical Education.
Tha-le Song Hong National Boy Scouts Camp provides meeting and seminar rooms and other facilities for boy scouts around the country.
Tham Khao Kop (Khao Kop Cave) A canal from the Banthat Mountain Range is divided into 3 waterways upon reaching Khao Kop, with 2 going around the mountain and the other flowing through the cave under the mountain.
An amazing natural wonder, the main attraction at Khao Kop is this stream which flows through the cave.
In addition, the cave itself looks like a high and steep cliff with layers of rocks and stalactites and stalagmites magnificently decorating the cave for a distance of approximately 4 kilometers.
Currently, the Khao Kop Tambon Administration Organization provides rowboats to facilitated visitors explorations of the cave.
The cave is in located in Mu 1, Tambon Khao Kop, approximately 7 kilometers from the District Office on Phetkasem Road.
Upon arriving at the kilometer 7 marker, turn left onto a 700-meter road that leads to the site.