Eco-tourism is more than a catch phrase for nature loving travel and recreation.
Eco-tourism is consecrated for preserving and sustaining the diversity of the world's natural and cultural environments.
It accommodates and entertains visitors in a way that is minimally intrusive or destructive to the environment and sustains & supports the native cultures in the locations it is operating in.
Responsibility of both travelers and service providers is the genuine meaning for eco-tourism. 
Eco-tourism also endeavors to encourage and support the diversity of local economies for which the tourism-related income is important.
With support from tourists, local services and producers can compete with larger, foreign companies and local families can support themselves.
The revenue produced from tourism helps and encourages governments to fund conservation projects and training programs. 
Saving the environment around you and preserving the natural luxuries and forest life, that's what eco-tourism is all about.
Whether it's about a nature camp or organizing trekking trips towards the unspoilt and inaccessible regions, one should always keep in mind not to create any mishap or disturbance in the life cycle of nature.
Eco-tourism focuses on local cultures, wilderness adventures, volunteering, personal growth and learning new ways to live on our vulnerable planet.
Eco-tourism is typically defined as travel to destinations where the flora, fauna, and cultural heritage are the primary attractions. 
Responsible Eco-tourism includes programs that minimize the adverse effects of traditional tourism on the natural environment, and enhance the cultural integrity of local people. 
Evaluating environmental and cultural factors, initiatives by hospitality providers to promote recycling, energy efficiency, water reuse, and the creation of economic opportunities for local communities are an integral part of Eco-tourism.
Historical, biological and cultural conservation, preservation, sustainable development etc. are some of the fields closely related to Eco-Tourism.
Many professionals have been involved in formulating and developing eco-tourism policies.
The professionals come from the fields of Geographic Information Systems, Wildlife Management, Wildlife Photography, Marine Biology and Oceanography, National and State Park Management, Environmental Sciences, Women in Development, Historians and Archaeologists, etc. 
Eco-tourism is considered the fastest growing market in the tourism industry, according to the World Tourism Organization with an annual growth rate of 5% worldwide and representing 6% of the world gross domestic product, 11.4% of all consumer spending - not a market to be taken lightly. 
Fundamentally, eco-tourism means making as little environmental impact as possible and helping to sustain the indigenous populace, thereby encouraging the preservation of wildlife and habitats when visiting a place
The responsible form of tourism and tourism development, which encourages going back to natural products in every aspect of life, is also the key to sustainable ecological development.
The International Eco-tourism Society defines eco-tourism as "responsible travel to natural areas that conserves the environment and improves the well-being of local people."
Today the "Green Laws" of conservation are making people aware of how man and the environment can live symbiotically for more time to come and eco-tourism is the only way to maximize the economic, environmental and social benefits of tourism.
Everyone is a stakeholder in the process and we clearly need to avoid our past shortcomings and negative impact that they have had. 
In India too the movement is gathering momentum with more and more travel and travel related organizations are addressing the needs of the eco-tourists and promoting eco-tourism in the country. 
Do not take away flora and fauna in the forms of cuttings, seeds or roots It is illegal, specially inthe Himalaya, 
The environment is really delicate in the  Himalaya region and the bio-diversity of the region has to be protected at all costs
Polythene and plastics are non biodegradable and unhealthy for the environment and must not be used and littered.
As a traveler, you will have an impact on the environment and culture of the place you are visiting
Learn about your destination before you get there and Read guidebooks, travel articles, histories, and/or novels by local authors and pay particular attention to customs such as greetings, appropriate dress, eating behaviors, etc.
Ask your eco-tour operator, guide and/or the local authorities what their guidelines are for limiting tourism's impact on the environment and local culture.
Support local businesses during your eco-travels to ensure maximum community and conservation benefit from your spending.
Eco-Tourism in India is still at a very nascent stage, but there are for sure conscious efforts to save the fragile Himalayan Eco System and culture and heritage of the indigenous people, which is probably the largest concentration in the world. 
Holiday Camping vis a vis Hotel accommodation is gathering momentum amongst the metropolis traveler.
A plethora of holiday camping options are available in the Himalayan belt, where soft adventure tourism is packaged with holiday camping to create an acceptable eco-tourism product.
Resorts tucked deep inside jungles of Karnataka, House-boats of Kerala, and Tree Houses at Vythiri combine to make India one of the most diverse eco-tourism destinations on the planet. 
The traveler finds the Mogao Caves, a shrine of Buddhist art treasures, 25 km (15.5miles) from downtown Dunhuang on the eastern slope of Mingsha Shan (Mount Echoing Sand).
A network of plank reinforced roads plying north to south 1600 meters (5, 249 feet) long lead to the cave openings, which are stacked five stories high some reaching up to 50 meters (164 feet). By the way, Mogao means high up in the desert.
According to Tang Dynasty records, a monk had witnessed onsite a vision of thousand Buddhas under showers of golden rays
a monk started the caves construction work that spanned ten dynasties.
Mogao Caves are commonly known as the Caves of a Thousand Buddhas.
Buddhist art has its origins in India.
Mogao sculptors improvised where the rock surface did not work well under their chisels.
They placed clay statues in front of the cave walls, carved relief murals as backdrops, and painted the sidewalls and ceilings with art decors.
The largest statue is 34.5 meters (113 feet) high and the smallest a mere 2 centimeters (0.79inches) high.
The traveler will note traces of Indian Buddhist art in the earlier works; more recent works depict all walks of life and activities in a local setting.
You will relive the daily routines and special events as captured by the artists while you are exploring the 750 caves.
There are also ups and downs in the artistic quality over the centuries, depending on the fortunes of Buddhism with available art patronage.
Artists in each dynasty painted with their distinctive palette and the visitor can tell the works in the Tang Dynasty from those in the Song Dynasty.
People believe it possible to fill 25 kilometers (15.5miles) of gallery space with the works of art from Mogao.
There are 50,000 manuscripts written in many languages apart from artifacts in Mogao caves.
The Mogao Caves are a depository of historical and cultural exchanges over more than a thousand years between China and other nations.
Lying at the center of Beijing, the Forbidden City, called Gu Gong in Chinese, was the imperial palace during the Ming and Qing dynasties
The Forbidden City, now known as the Palace Museum, it is to the north of Tiananmen Square.
Rectangular in shape, Tiananmen Square is the world's largest palace complex and covers 74 hectares.
Tiananmen Square, surrounded by a six meter deep moat and a ten meter high wall are 9,999 buildings.
Opposite the Tiananmen Gate, to the north is the Gate of Devine Might (Shenwumen), which faces Jingshan Park.
The distance between these two gates is 960 meters, while the distance between the gates in the east and west walls is 750 meters.
There are unique and delicately structured towers on each of the four corners of the curtain wall.
The Forbidden City is divided into two parts, the southern section, or the Outer Court was where the emperor exercised his supreme power over the nation and the northern section, or the Inner Court was where he lived with his royal family.
Until 1924 when the last emperor of China was driven from the Inner Court, fourteen emperors of the Ming dynasty and ten emperors of the Qing dynasty had reigned.
Listed by UNESCO as a World Cultural Heritage Site in 1987, the Palace Museum is now one of the most popular tourist attractions world-wide.
Construction of the palace complex began in 1407, the 5th year of the Yongle reign of the third emperor of the Ming dynasty.
The palace complex was completed fourteen years later in 1420.
It was said that a million workers including one hundred thousand artisans were driven into the long-term hard labor.
Stone needed was quarried from Fangshan, a suburb of Beijing.
It was said a well was dug every fifty meters along the road in order to pour water onto the road in winter to slide huge stones on ice into the city.
Huge amounts of timber and other materials were freighted from faraway provinces.
Ancient Chinese people displayed their very considerable skills in building the Forbidden City.
Take the grand red city wall for example and it has an 8.6 meters wide base reducing to 6.66 meters wide at the top.
The bricks were made from white lime and glutinous rice while the cement is made from glutinous rice and egg whites
Since yellow is the symbol of the royal family, it is the dominant color in the Forbidden City.
Roofs are built with yellow glazed tiles; decorations in the palace are painted yellow; even the bricks on the ground are made yellow by a special process.
there is one exception. Wenyuange, the royal library, has a black roof because the reason is that it was believed black represented water then and could extinguish fire.
Nowadays, the Forbidden City, or the Palace Museum is open to tourists from home and abroad.
Splendid painted decoration on these royal architectural wonders, the grand and deluxe halls, with their surprisingly magnificent treasures will certainly satisfy 'modern civilians'.
The Great Wall of China, one of the greatest wonders of the world, was enlisted in the World Heritage by UNESCO in 1987.
Just like a gigantic dragon, the Great Wall winds up and down across deserts, grasslands, mountains and plateaus, stretching approximately 6,700 kilometers (4,163 miles ) from east to west of China.
a history of more than 2000 years, some of the section of the great wall are now in ruins or even entirely disappeared.
it is still one of the most appealing attractions all around the world owing to its architectural grandeur and historical significance.
Excitement abounds in the origin, vicissitude and nature of the great wall of the Qin, Han, and Ming dynasties.
The Great Wall was originally built in the Spring, Autumn, and Warring States Periods as a defensive fortification by the three states: Yan, Zhao and Qin.
Great Wall went through constant extensions and repairs in later dynasties.
In fact, it began as independent walls for different states when it was first built, and did not become the "Great" wall until the Qin Dynasty.
Emperor Qin Shihuang succeeded in his effort to have the walls joined together to fend off the invasions from the Huns in the north after the unification of China. 
Since then, the Great Wall has served as a monument of the Chinese nation throughout history.
Wall is like a tour through the history backwards; it brings tourists great excitement in each step of the wall.  
The construction of the Great Wall, drew heavily on the local resources for construction materials, was carried out in line with the local conditions under the management of contract and responsibility system.
A great army of manpower composed of soldiers, prisoners, and local people, built the wall.
The construction result demonstrates the manifestation of the wisdom and tenacity of the Chinese people.
The Great Wall as we see today was mostly built during the Ming Dynasty.
The Great Wall starts from Shanhaiguan Pass in the east to Jiayuguan Pass in the west traversing provinces of Liaoning, Hebei, Beijing, Tianjin, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Shaanxi and Gansu.  
The China Great Wall Academy has called for greater protection of this important relic.
Following a forty-five day long survey of 101 sections of the Wall in different provinces, the China Great Wall Academy reported on December 12, 2002 that the forces of nature and destruction at the hand of mankind are bringing about the gradual reduction of its extent with the result that less than 30% remains in good condition.
Culture of the wall, Unfolding a considerable part of Chinese culture beyond the wall.	
The Great Wall has long been incorporated into Chinese mythology and popular symbolism.
The most beautiful of several legends is about the collapse of a section of the Great Wall caused by Meng Jiangnu, who cried bitterly over the death of her husband in the construction of the Great Wall
The Great Wall of China,this legend has been spread widely through textbooks, folk songs and traditional operas
If you prefer to see the wall in a relatively natural state, visit Simatai, 110km north-east of Beijing.
Simatai, this part of the Wall is the best choice, for it is still in its original state without being developed into a popular tourist attraction due to its distance and little public transportation options.
Of all the notable mountains in China, Mount Huangshan, to be found in the south of Anhui province, is probably the most famous.
Originally known as Mt. Yishan it was renamed Mt. Huangshan in 747 AD in recognition of the legendary Huang Di, who was the reputed ancestor of the Chinese people and who made magic pills for immortality here.