Established in the year 1975, HUDA has been in the forefront of urban planning and infrastructure development in Hyderabad.
Nestled in the southern indian peninsula, skitrted by the waters of the Bay of Bengal and the Indian ocean, Tamil Nadu is a land of natural wonders.
There are sanctuaries, lakes, waterfalls, forests, slopping hills and sunny beaches on the one hand; on the other there are men made marvels like the grand temples, magnificent churches and imposing forts.
Travel back in time as you see the rock-cut temples of Mamallapuram or spend your time exploring the quaint temple town like Srirangam, Madurai, Rameshwaram and Chidembaram.
Escape to the picture perfect hill stations such as Kodaikanal and Ooty and spend some time exploring the vast coffee and spice plantation.
Also the land of dance and music, Tamil Nadu is the perfect destination for connoisseurs of the art.
Unwind with an evening of Carnatic Music or watch the Bharatnatyam performance.
Don’t forget to savour our delectable dosas, salad (Thalis) and fresh filter coffee before you call it a day.
Wake up to the aroma of the filter coffee, laze in a hammock by the sea side and retire to the solitude of a tree house.
Located on one of the world’s most historic beaches, this Mahabalipuram resort known as GRT Temple Bay brings you luxury with the music of lapping waves.
All the suites and villas in GRT Temple Bay have a view of sea, and are great for holiday or even a quick break if you are in Chennai on business.
Spend your evening at high tide the hotels seafront bar, or sample the sea food delicacies at the Waterfront café.
Cardamom House: this ‘eco – farm’ at the edge of the Kamarjar lake is something special.
Run by a retired doctor, this green tourism project, cardamom house ensures that all your meal are fresh from the garden, the showers are solar powered, and yes, your wine is home made.
Begin your day with coffee on the verandah and wind down with dinner on the rooftop, which offers a splendid view, while the fragrance of frangipani wafts around you.
There are plenty of walking trails, and daytrips to Madurai and Palani, and Kodaukanal is a three hour drive away.
Located in the heart of a ‘spice sanctuary’ in the Nilgiris, the Kurumba Village Resort is a cluster of cottages, each delightfully ‘earthy’ – pyramid – shaped, with bright interiors, balconies with railings of areca wood and tiled roofs.
Every bathroom gives you a splendid view of the hilly horizon – while maintaining your privacy, of course! If you really want to leave this cosy resort, go trekking, or drive to coonoor or the green, unspoilt upper bhawani area.
The Bangala: a mansion, which stands in an absolutely striking ‘boulevard of palaces’, was once a extravagant Chettiar home, built from the huge profits to teak trading.
Now a heritage hotel and a spot of calm in Karaikudi, The Bangala is known for its mouthwatering Chettinad curries, served, as is traditional, on banana leaves.
With the Madumalai wildlife sanctuary for a backyard and Bandipur National Park not far away, a stay at Bamboo Banks Farm gives you plenty of opportunities foe game viewing and photography.
The 40 acre farm by the Avarihalli river with four independent, cosy cottages has been run by Kothavalas, a charming couple, for the last 30 year.
Old timers swear by this sprawling white structure that is Chennai’s first and perhaps, only heritage hotel called as Taj Connemara
Taj Connemara’s colonial elegance blends perfectly with the contemporary touch in its newly renovated rooms.
The jewel in its architectural crown is the lord Connemera suite; with relish its authentic TT Chettinad cuisine at the Raintree, another feather in the Connemara cap.
If you’ve ever dreamt of living on a farm, making bread and cheese, and feeding the hence every morning, head to Acre Wild.
Mansoor and Tina Khan, the couple who run the Acre Wild organic home stay in the hills of Coonoor, are trying to promote an eco – friendly, self sustaining lifestyle – by introducing to this 22 – acre farm a diverse rages of tree and plants, creating small bodies of water to bring back the birds and wildlife, and keeping their own hense, cows, Ducks, geese, horses and bees.
What this farm is known for though, are the home made cheese and jams.
This glorious hotel, The Park with its 215 rooms, stands in the premises of the erstwhile Gemini Studio.  
Tall Bamboos, stylish sofas, feather duvets and a bar with a leather floor makes this lavish hotel a design statement.
Aesthetes will find the glass – walled bathrooms beautiful as also the huge granite arc that is the reception. 
The food, equally good, is a good, is a huge draw.
The Malabar crab and the raw mango curry are a southerner’s delights delights.
The rooftop poolside adds to the pleasure of feasting on Mediterranean delicacies. 
Red Hill Nature Resort; a 120- year old bungalow has plenty to recommend it – located in the upper Nilgiris, next to Keralra’s famous silent Valley, the Mukurthi National Park, and on the edge of the calm Emerald Lake.
Each room has a long fireplace of its own, which probably makes it harder to leave it, especially when there’s no room service.
However, this unusual practice has forged many friendship and sparked many a conversation over dinner.
Elephant Valley: built right next to a centuries – old elephant migration route, this 100 – acre estate that overlooks the Gangavaar river in picturesque Kodaikanal, is a bio – diverse spot.
Each granite cottages is furnished in colonial style complete with wood stoves for those winter evening but if you’re adventurous, you can opt for a tent, or even a tree house.
Meal come from the organic farm, the light and hot water runs on Solar energy, and rainwater harvesting is also done here.
Observes over a 100 species of birds, go for a long trek or try your hand at  rganic farming.
There’s more cuisine than just power – soft idlis and Vadas. Dig into spicy prawns, calamaries and chicken fry.
Moonrakers is the pre – eminent eat- out in Mahabalipuram.
Every guidebook mentions this joint, and the moonrakers certainly lives up to its fantastic reputation.
Driving down from Chennai for lunch at Moonrakers is a common weekend occurrence.
Choose between the batter-fried Calamari and the fried Calamari in garlic sauce, both equally delicious.
The fried fish is the popular choice for the main course – we recommend the red – snapper.
Cold beer makes for the perfect accompaniment, amidst the (usually) warm and humid weather.
Benjarong is where you get to rub shoulders with Chennai’s who’s who, thanks to the exotic and out – of – this – world Thai food served here.
Don’t forget to reserve a table if it’s a weekend, what with people from Bangalore flying in to dine here.
Apart from the usual favorites, such as the fragrant fish with Basil and chillies and the tangy papayas salad, don’t miss the mein khum, a Thai variation of paan.
Chefs Matthew has a special lunch for the value conscious too, priced at Rs. 178.
Sarvana Bhawan is a chain which is arguably ?Tamil Nadu’s largest eating – out endeavour, at least in terms of the number of locations covered. 
Sarvana Bhawan is present in 22 places in Tamil Nadu itself, covering, Chennai, Vellore and Kanchipuram.
They’ve exported their wares across eight countries too, all within the last 25 years.
They specialize in quick service South Indian fare (their north Indian dishes are an acquired taste), having made an assembly line of idlis, dosas, parottas and Uttapams.
Their strict process orientation ensures a shorter wait, and consistent quality.
Chettinad Cuisine : the wealthy Chettiars gave Tamil Nadu more than just business – their rich cuisine apart from the ethnic mansions they built.
Chettinad food, heavily partial towards meat and fish lovers, is widely available in the state.
In Chennai, however, nothing can come even close to the 50- year-old Ponnusamy Hotel
Ponnusamy food is not for the weak- hearted as chefs are very generous with the spices.
The Ponnusamy chicken fry is a good bet , if one doesn’t want to try the ever popular and economical thali.
Other recommendations include the crab masala, sora puttu (shark) kaadai65 (quail) rabbit roast, pigeon roast and the mutton biryani.
Eat straight from the plantain leaf with a wide range of pickles to accompany every ‘meaty’ mouthful.
The Sri Velu Military mess in Nungambakkam too represents the old guard, as far as non vegetarian Chennai goes.
The ‘military’ is a adjective which has, for a long time now, represented the extremist meat – eating stances it has. 
The waiter carries a large platter with the piping hot dishes on it, a far better option than ordering their expensive menu which spans a large variety from seafood to poultry.
Enjoy the night with amorous candlelight, contemporary cuisine and alfresco ambience at Upper Deck.
Along with authentic Mediterranean and Lebanese cuisine, the outdoor feel of the restaurant brings you the company of the ocean, a starlit night and warm sea breeze.
Prawns with Dukkha spices, Caharmaula crusted New Zealand lamb chops served with spices couscous and the chef’s signature Mezze Sampler are but a few delectable dishes, cooked up to tease your taste buds.
So go ahead, give dinner the Upper Deck advantage. 
Murugan’s idli shop started in Madurai, where it spent many years serving its piping hot idlis and a wide assortment of chutneys to go with them.
The idlis are special, enough to specify naming the shop after them.
Power – soft and guaranteed to melt in the mouth, the long queue outside the testament to the chef’s skill. 
There are some excellent variations of Vadai and pongal as well.
Murugan’s rarely downs its shutter- open almost all days and nights.
North Indian food in a southern state? Not a very appetizing proposition, we’d say, but Gyan Vaishnav Punjabi Dhaba, which fills an important gap in Chennai’s restaurant offering, is worth a try. 
The Dhaba started off in Vellore before spreading all over the state.
The vegetarian menu is purely Punjabi, down to cheeky titles such as the Rabri without Lalu.
The double malai lassi is an eternal favourite – one risks offending the restaurateurs if you don’t order it.
A life size Amitabh Bachchan cut-out stands right at the entrance of the Chennai branch, beckoning you to join the feast.
Konar Mess is a legend in Madurai, where anyone who is not a staunch vegetarian will swear by.
Konar Mess named after a community in Tamil Nadu.
However, they do serve anyone desires it. Outside the mess also patrons are seen standing around, or in their cars, putting away large mouth – watering helpings of the limited menu.
Almost all of its highly specialized offering is excellent, with top honours  split between the mutton dosa and the idiappam with hot chicken curry.
Angannan Hotel in Coimbatore evokes a single word in the palates of everyone who knows of it – biryani.
Also called the Angannan Biryani Hotel, its biryani has wide acclaim, well beyond limits of the this industrial town.
The choice is primarily between the chicken and the mutton variants, and the chicken fry and roasts are commendable too. 
The biryanis is best had piping hot, so it’s advisable to turn up early at mealtimes.
Fisherman’s Fare joint on Chennai’s Spur Tank Road (and with a new branch on casa major Road around the corner) is one of the more popular seafood restaurants in the city.
Ask for catch of the day at Fisherman’s Fare, and go with the waiter’s recommendation on its preparations too. 
The prawn fry is an excellent appetizer, the crabmeat too is spoken of highly. The place is usually packed, so factor in a short wait.
Fruit Shop on Greams Road, yea that’s the name, though the shop has branches in Chennai’s Besant Nagar and Spencer plaza too.
Fruit Shop on Greams Road is the city’s favourite juice – and – milk – shake joint.
The Besant Nagar Beach one is the most convenient, when one is enjoying an evening by the seaside. 
It’s all reasonably priced, with a long list of choices.
I remember the amazing taste of the lemon – sevai and jhangri at the hotel Annapoorna, Coimbatore.
The shop is open till midnight,and they don’t accept tips, usually.
One must try the filter coffee at Hotel Sangeetha, Chennai – it’s as close as one can get to what we make at home.
Trichy’s keerai – vadai are very crisp and hot oily at all.