Chao Mai Cave-Chao Khun Cave is a stalagmite/stalactite cave in To Nae Mountain, near Ban Chao Mai.
A small rowboat can take travelers to explore the cave and proceed through to a verdant mangrove forest.
Hat Yao is a long beach that extends from a sharks fin shaped mountain to the north. Located at Mu 6 in Tambon Ko Libong, the beach is dotted with lovely sea pines and is therefore very suitable for camping.
Situated on the way to Chao Mai Beach, Hat Yong Ling and Hat San are curved beaches that run parallel to a pine forest.
At the end of the beach is a high mountain with niches, caves and a passageway to a cliff with more caves and rocks, similar to a fortress encircling sand dunes.
Thailand's hot springs are not located only in the northern region, but also in the south, at Mu 7, Tambon Bo Nam Ron, the hot spring is accessible via a road from Kantang (kilometer 10 marker).
Khuan Tamnak Chan Public Park is located approximately 24 kilometers from the city.
Encompassing an area of 250 rai, Khuan Tamnak Chan Public Park offers spectacular surroundings and a magnificent view of the sea and Kantang District.
Having been developed to grow large trees and decorative plants, the park is equipped with tourist facilities that include resting pavilion and a parking lot.
Ko Chueak - Ko Waen Small islands between Ko Muk and Ko Kradan, the islands are blessed with amazingly colorful shallow and deepwater corals that are the habitat of many types of fish.
Visitors can take boats from Pak Meng Pier to the islands, boats leave regularly on the same route as to Ko Muk and Ko Kradan.
One of the most beautiful islands in Trang, Ko Kradan is located about 40 minutes by boat from the mainland.
With an area of 600 rai (240 acres), most of the island belongs to Hat Chao Mai National Park.
The island offers good restaurants and accommodations for tourists.
The most striking feature of Ko Kradan is its powdery, white beach and crystal clear water that permits a great view of the coral reef underneath.
The reef stretches from Ko Kradan beachs northern end to the coast.
A variety of colorful fish inhabit the shallow water corals making the site perfect for snorkeling.
Ko Kradan is to the west of Ko Muk and Ko Libong and from Pak Meng Pier; visitors can take a 1.5-hour boat trip to Ko Kradan.
There is one resort on Ko Kradan providing rooms and bungalows as well as major resort facilities.
Ko Libong, Trangs largest island is located in Tambon Libong and is part of the Libong Archipelago Wildlife Reserve whose headquarters are located here.
With an area of 40,000 square kilometers, Ko Libong, which is a haven for holidaymakers, has many fishing villages where most of the residents are Muslims.
Ko Libong island has many capes and beaches such as Tup Beach, Chu Hoi Cape, Thuat Cape, and To Chai Cape.
At low tide visitors can walk across the beach from Chu Hoi Cape to Ko Tup where numerous seabirds and mangrove birds from colder climates congregate during their migration.
Around the island are masses of seaweed where rare herds of manatees can be seen. 
It is also the home of a variety of native and migratory birds that are most abundant in winter.
From Ko Libong, visitors can get a good view of Ko Chao Mai and Chao Mai Cape.
To reach the island, take a boat that leaves every hour at Hat Yao Ban Chao Mai Pier.
The fare for the 30 minute trip is 400 baht per boat, and accommodations are provided on the island.
Not just another interesting attraction, Ko Muk is the most outstanding attraction in the Trang Sea and an ideal destination for tourists enthralled with nature.
The island, which is nearly opposite Hat Chang Lang on the mainland, has impeccable beaches suitable for swimming and camping and lovely corals around the island that are worth exploring.
In addition, The island is comprised of high and majestic cliffs facing the sea to the west, a fishing village on the east facing the mainland and swallows that make the numerous cliffs their home.
Hidden in the jungle, among the cliffs is the awesome Tham Morakot.
The entrance of Emerald cave is a small passage on the islands western side that is accessible by boat during low tide.
Emerald cave itself winds for about 80 meters to the other exit, opening onto a clean white beach with an emerald color open pool which is surrounded by high cliffs.
To see real fishermen’s' daily activities, visit Ao Phangkha and the Muslim fishing village of Kua Laem, located at the southern end of the island.
To get to Ko Muk, tourists can take a boat from Pak Meng Pier in Amphoe Sikao for the 40-minute trip.
Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum is a historical site where the former ruler of Trang, Phraya Ratsadanupradit, once lived.
Inside the two-story wooden building are a wax figure of the former ruler and a complete collection of his daily personal items.
Currently, the Na Ranong family manages Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum. 
Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum is located around 200 meters from Kantang Municipality at No. 1, Khai Phithak Road, Tambon Kantang.
Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Museum is open to the public every day, except Mondays (it is open on public holidays but closed the following day).
Phra Non Song Khrueang Manora, this image in death posture is enshrined at Wat Phu Khao Thong, Mu 1, Tambon Nam Phut, around 20 kilometers from the city
The head is the most distinctive feature of the image as it is decorated with a head-dress of the Nora dance called the Throet a holy and royal ornament of Southern Thailand's indigenous dance performance.
Phra Srinagarindra Park (Thung Nam Phut) is located 3 kilometers from the city along Nam Phut Road, and on the right of Tha Klang Road is a beautifully landscaped park with a magnificent view.
Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi Monument was built to commemorate Phraya Ratsadanupradit Mahison Phakdi, a former ruler of Trang Province who introduced and initiated rubber cultivation, which led to the widespread planting of rubber in southern Thailand.
A man with long vision, he was instrumental in the development of Trang's infrastructure, agriculture, animal husbandry, education system, and laid out the structure of local administration.
The site is located in Trang Municipal Park, about 1 kilometer from the Provincial Hall on the Trang-Phatthalung route.
Sa Kaphang Surin is a natural pool of about 80,000 square meters. Spanning the pool is a concrete bridge connecting the three beautiful pavilions located in the pools center.
There is a zoo not far from Phraya Ratsadanupradit Monument and this pool is located in Trang Municipality, approximately 2 kilometers from the Provincial Hall on Wian Kaphang Road.
It is believed that Tham Khao Sam Bat (Cave) is the place where as much as three alms-bowls full of treasure was hidden.
The cave is archeologically significant as some ancient writing was found on the wall of the cave.
Prince Krom Phraya Narisara Nuwattiwong determined that the writing was of the Ayutthaya period (1709-1732 A.D.).
Some ancient pieces of clay pots, sea shells and stone tools were also found in 1980 by a team of archeologists from the Department of Archeology, Silpakorn University and in 1990, a drawing of what looks like three red mountains was discovered.
Khao Chong Wildlife Development and Conservation Promotion Station, Thailand's first nature and wildlife study place, the Station is covered with large trees, streams and waterfalls like Ton Yai, Ton Noi and Ka Chong.
Its nature study trail is a walking trail that is ideal for studying nature up close, with signs along the trail providing information on the environment.
The Museum and Exhibition Building has exhibitions on nature and natural resource conservation.
The Station is located approximately 21 kilometers from the City on the Trang-Phatthalung Road.
A large swamp in Khlong Lam Chan Waterfall Park is home to numerous waterfowls whose migration period is from January to March.
The park is a peaceful place suitable for relaxation, or even overnight camping.
Khlong Lam Chan Waterfall Park is in Khlong Lam Chan Wildlife Reserve, 17 kilometers from the city on the Trang-Phatthalung route, then take a right turn on the Ban Ka Chong-Ban Hat Lao Road (Highway No. 4124) and proceed for about 1 kilometer.
Namtok Ka Chong, a splendid waterfall, which cascades from a high mountain down a cliff to rocks below, is a popular spot for local residents.
The waterfall is located in Khao Chong Botanical Park on the Trang-Phatthalung Road in Amphoe Na Yong, some 7 kilometers from the District Office.
Tham Khao Chang Hai cave, which is the site of heavenly made stalagmites and stalactites in various shapes, is 5 kilometers from Amphoe Na Yong Market in Ban Na Muen Si.
Ko Sukon island is a Tambon in Palian District, only 3 kilometers from shore via the Trang-Palian Road (Highway No. 404).
The island has many charming and quiet beaches which are ideal for relaxation.
Ko Sukon island is a place where visitors can see both rice fields and rubber tree plantations in tiny villages.
Ko Sukon is renowned in the province for its delicious watermelons, which is harvested in March and April.
To reach the island, take a bus on Trang-Palian route or a van from Amphoe Muang for approximately 35 kilometers and board a ferry for a 40-minute crossing at Tha Kham Pier in Palian.
Ferries leave twice daily at 10.00 a.m. and 2.00 p.m. Alternatively, visitors can board a boat at Ta-se Pier in King Amphoe Hat Samran.
TO reach this pier take Highway No. 404, turn right at Ban Na intersection and proceed for approximately 18 kilometers and turn left and proceed for approximately 7 kilometers.
The total traveling time of Ko Sukon is 20-30 minutes and the rented boat costs 500 baht for 10 people; accommodations on the island are available.
As the majority of the inhabitants of the island are Muslim, please remember to dress properly while spending time there as a gesture of respect to the local residents.
Mu Ko Phetra National Park, this marine national park, which is located in Amphoe Palian and Amphoe La-ngu in Satun, was proclaimed a national park on 31 December 1994.
Comprising islands such as Ko Phetra, Ko Khao Yai, Ko Lanti, Ko Lidi, Ko Bulon, Ko Laoliang, and Ko Praoma, the park is accessible from Pak Bara Pier in Satun.
The most suitable time to visit the National Park is from December to April.
Tourist accommodations are available near the park headquarters.
Namtok Ton Te waterfall is located 45 kilometers from the city.
Originating in the Banthat Mountain Range, the waterfall drops 320 meters down to the rocks.
The waterfall is accessible by car throughout the year.
To reach the waterfall, take Trang-Phatthalung Road for about 17 kilometers, turn right onto the Ban Kachong-Ban Hat Lao Road (Highway No. 4124) for about 27 kilometers and finally make a left turn and proceed for another 1 kilometer.
Namtok Ton Tok waterfall and Nam Tok Ton Te, which are located 1 kilometer apart from each other, are connected by a walking trail.
With streams flowing through large and small rocks, Ton Tok waterfall offers a great view of Ton Tae waterfall.
Hat Chao Mai National Park, which was proclaimed a marine national park on 14 October 1982, covers the 2 districts of Kantang and Sikao.
The park headquarters is situated at Chang Lang Beach in Tambon Mai Fat, approximately 47 kilometers from the city.
Hat Chao Mai has a 20-kilometer coastline and a 5-kilometer long white sandy beach which is set against shady casuarinas and limestone hills with caves.
Most caves are of historical importance as prehistoric human remains are found.
Land-based attractions of the park are Pak Meng Beach, Chang Lang Beach, San Beach, Yao Beach, Yong Ling Beach, Chao Mai Beach, and Chao Mai Cave. All are easily accessible by car.
The park also features the Marine Natural Study Center (tel. 0-7521-0664) and the Tourist Service Center.
In the national park, endangered dugong can be spotted along with rare black-necked stork.
More common wildlife includes macaques, languors, wild pigs, pangolins, pacific-reef egrets, etc.
To reach the park, take the Trang-Sikao-Pak Meng Road (Highway No. 4162) for 40 kilometers and then 7 kilometers more on a road that runs parallel to the beach to the park headquarters.
Hat Pak Meng, the beautiful and peaceful, 5-kilometer long beach resembles a crescent moon and is fringed by a lovely pine forest.
Local residents of Trang and people from nearby provinces like to come here to relax and sample the spicy seafood.
Boats from Pak Meng Pier takes visitors to Ko Ngai and other islands close by.
The beach is located at Mu 4, Tambon Mai Fat, 38 kilometers from the city on the Trang-Sikao-Pak Meng Road (Highway No. 4046-4162).
Ko Ngai or Ko Hai is an island that is actually in Amphoe Ko Lanta of Krabi. However, it is classified as a tourist destination in the Trang Sea because access is easier from Trang.
The island has a white beach, clear waters and is surrounded by magnificent corals.
A boat trip from Pak Meng Pier to Ko Ngai or Ko Hai takes about an hour.
A 10-person capacity boat can be rented at the cost of 1,500 baht, for 20 to 40 persons the price is 6,000-10,000 baht.
Accommodations are available on Ko Ngai or Ko Hai island.