Enjoy the cocktails on the lawn and dinner in the restaurant Rio Bar, popular with locals as well as tourists.
In hotel Kohinoor you’ll also find Diu’s lone disco, footloose – go here i fyou  want to party with Gujarati students on amerry night out, but it’s probably better to unwind by opting for a massage at Ayura, the ayurvedic spa, instead.
Resort Hoka is located near beautiful and quiet Nagoa beach, this atmospheric little hotel’s name comes from the Hoka palms surrounding it.
In resort Hoka there are 10 charming yet spacious rooms, with attached bathrooms, each with its own verandah or sit-out.
With direct access to ghogla beach this cosy Suzlon Beach Hotel boasts a pleasant sea facing restaurant and bar.
Don’t leave Diu without trying the delicious handmade icecreams and shakes at this little place; Shri Ram Vijay; near the main town square.
Peacock bar and restaurant is one of the most popular restaurants in Diu, this place serves tasty tandoori pomfret and excellently prepared grilled fish with lemon butter sauce.
Come to Heranca Goesa for fantastic Portuguese – Goan cuisine at amazingly affordable prices.
In Heranca Goesa you have to book dinner by 10 a.m. so, that the owners can get you the freshest seafood.
Apana: this rooftop restaurant offers a real feast for seafood buffs with a sea view to match.
Seafood platter with squid, kingfish, prawns and crab in Apana is highly recommended, as is the pomfret pulao, shark tikka, kingfish curry and tandoori lobster.
Quirky little knickknacks and export surplus bargains is what you can expect to find in Diu.
A fun to shop around for handicraft as well as all manner of ‘made in china’ goods, Diu’s bustling night market near in the vegetable market (ask any local for direction) is a must visit for every travelers in Diu, if only for the atmosphere.
In the night market you will find toiletries, cosmetics, watches, games and great gifts to take back home.
 Handicrafts in stone, metal and shell are available at this small shop known as Sarjan Art gallery, near the main petrol pump. 
You can also find colorful saris made especially for the weddings and festivals of fisherfolk, along with the white cushion covers and mats that will do your home proud at Sarjan Art gallery.
Bunder Chowk a busy little shopping centre is excellent beachwear, shorts and export surplus garments that you can pick up for your seaside holiday.
Even as you enter the state, you will begin to see, to feel, why Goa is the favoured destination of travelers from all over the globe.
As vibrant as Ibiza, as atmospheric as Venice, and filled with a warmth and generosity completely its own, one can never say enough about this wonderful state Goa.
You will be spoiled for choice in Goa – long stretches of pristine sands, magnificent churches and cathedrals, rambling forts that have stood guard over sea for centuries, sprawling spices plantation and delightful old Portuguese villas.
Look no further than the heritage houses that now serves as renowned hotels, the ethic restaurants – French, Italian and best of all, Goan – that draws celebrities from all over the country and of course, the marvelous antique shops and designer boutiques that can give the best of the metros a run for their money.
Visit Goa and experience firsthand how life should really be lived.
In Goa give the glitzy seaside resorts a miss, and head to one of these delightful boutique hotels or eco friendly lodges.
Nilaya Hermitage hotel promises you the sun, moon and stars, or that’s how the airy, gorgeously decorated rooms are themes anyway.
With none of the cookie – cutter sameness of larger resorts, all rooms in Nilaya Hermitage features different color schemes and decor.
The beach (and hence the crowd) is a short walk away, but on lazy days, you can lounge around the swimming pool or pamper yourself at the luxurious Ayurvedic centre.
Just a seashell’s throw from the Baga Beach, this is one of the most ambient little boutique hotels in the state.
The decor in the Casa Baga, the owners will have you know, has been inspired by Bali, which translates into rattan blinds, cool stone floors, appliquéd curtains, antique Indonesian furniture and tons of unusual object’s d’art. 
The rooftop lounge Casa Baga offers some great views and you can party the night away at the hip Congo.
For the perfect cleansing of mind, body and soul, head to Pousada Tauma , colonial style boutique hotels with a dash of Ayurveda thrown in.
All 12 suites – beautifully decorated with antique furniture, stretched linens and striking artwork – are clustered around a lovely little swimming pool.
Hotel Posada Tauma is also a treat from the outside, right from the outside, right from the exposed masonry of the façade to the palm - lined gardens.
Located in a wooded area, Bhakti Kutir comprises is a tiny ‘village’ of 22 charming thatched cabanas, all built with palm leaves, bamboo and clay.
Meditate and practice yoga in the amphitheatre and reward yourself with mud baths and massages.
Run by a British couple Yogamagic is almost militantly ecofriendly right from the fantastic all vegetarian cuisine to facilities built from organic resources such as cow dung, rammed earth and bamboo. 
While there are lodges and suites on the premises of Yogamagic Canvas Ecotel. Opt for the tents, all decorated with locally made furniture, silk cushions and colourful furnishings.
Yogamagic Canvas Ecotel also has private open air showers and the eco toilets (contribute to the compost proactively!), live the simple life in style.
Located at the mouth of an estuary, where the Tiracol river and the sea meet, this wonderful Tiracol Fort Heritage hotel occupies part of restored 16th century Tiracol Fort.
Needless to say, the views of the undulating blue waters are majestic; just step out into your personal balcony to soak in the salt fresh air.
The Tiracol Fort Hotel is run by same couple who operate the Nilaya Hermitage – German fashion stylist Claudia Ajawni –and her husband Hari – so it is little wonder that two suites and five double rooms are elegant and quaint all at the same time.
Leave behind the frenetic cigarettes – and – coffee pace of the city, and head to The Purple valley Yoga Centre to soothe your body and soul.
The The Purple valley Yoga Centre is a residential yoga school and offers an invigoratingly healthy experience in a beautiful sitting.
The yoga taught at this school is mainly of the Ashtanga tradition; take the two – week course for beginners, which includes accommodation and two meals a day, besides classes.
All meals are vegetarian, sumptuously prepared, and area served buffer style in the communal dining areas.
Rooms are tastefully decorated and informed by all sorts of spiritual things.
Cozy Nook in Palolem does a good job of living up to its name.
Accommodation in cozy nook includes thatched huts, tree houses, and trendy cottages with quirky bathrooms.
Cozy Nook resort has a communal chill – out areas, where you can play chess, read a book or listen to music.
The restaurant is just as laidback, and features floors innovatively tiled with beer bottle caps! Ask the owner to arrange a night time boat trip to butterfly beach.
Casa Palacio Siolim House: set in a dignified 18th century villa in the quiet coastal village of Siolim this is wonderful retreat from the bustle of the more touristy beach (although Anjuna and Calangute are less than 10 km away).
A rather decrepit building until as early as a decade ago, it has been lovingly restored by its owner into the beautiful establishment it is today – mother –of- pearl windows, terracotta-tiled floors and gorgeous rooms.
Even as you tread the creaky bamboo bridge over the saltwater creak that connects Mandrem Beach to Elsewhere, you will know that you wouldn’t want to be anywhere else.
The feeling only becomes stronger as you come face to face with the terracotta red 19th century beach villa, with its charming blue shutters and tiled roof.
Closer to the elements then opt for a Otter Creek Tents, surrounded by greenery, the luxurious tents, sit right on the banks of a tiny rivulet, which runs parallel to the beach.
Rich in both fire and flavour, and laced with more than a hint of Portugal, Goan cuisine is defined by the bounty of the sea.
Britto set in a modest Portuguese – style bungalow, Britto’s has seating arrangements both on the Verandah, and on the ridges that slopes down to Baga beach.
Britto affords beautiful views, especially at night, with the lighthouse at fort Aguada on the left and Baga hill jutting out on the right.
Of course, you are far more likely to be gazing lovingly at your sea food platter, which comes complete with prawns, calamari, pomfret, king fish, oyster and whichever other edible creatures was fished up during the day’s catch.
Sink your teeth into the sweet crab meat, slurp up the delicious juice inside a mussel and top it all off with a glass or two of white wine.
Try a slice of Britto’s dark chocolate cake to end your meal on a mellow note.
There is live entertainment every Monday followed by karaoke every Thursday night.
Run by Mrs Carafina Pereir, an impressive matron with even more impressive culinary skills, Martin’s Corner near Betalbatim Beach offer fantastic Goan fare with some Chinese and continental thrown in.
But when in Goa, eat as the Goan do; the sausage pulao is excellent, as is the fish caldin, pomfret cooked in spicy coconut gravy.
For the sturdy – hearted, there is the delicately flavoured ox tounge and the jumping chicken (something that, in more ways than one, croaked).
Sit out in a courtyard and wash the sea food down with some chilled beer, and more, SachinTendulakar loves to eat here.
No trip to Goa is complete without an edible souvenir in the shape of the famous sweet dish, bebinca, a 16 layer egg and coconut milk cake, mostly had during the festivals and other occasions.
However Benbanca, is easily available at most Goan, bakeries and a fairly decent version of it sells under the Costa’s brand.
Something of an institution, Souza Lobo’s is a set in a charming Goan home right on the Calangute Beach, where tables are out in the evening.
Souza Lobo’s been around since 1932 and is run by Judd Lob, the founder’s great grandson, and the keeper of an enviable cache of secret recipes.
The eatery has a casual shake – like atmosphere and serves some of the greatest Goan Food in the region.
The fried mackerel is crisp and flavoursome, while the tiger prawn are juicy and succulent.  
Try the fish fillet stuffed with prawns or the steamed rice with fish in green gravy.
End the feast with Bebinca, and if you are feeling particularly daring, a glass of coconut feni.
If you’re looking for the ultimate fine – dining experience, then head to the Banyan Tree at the Taj holiday Village.
As its name suggests, the restaurant is set in the shade in the shade of a 300 –year – old Banyan tree, and is made even more appealing by its shimmering fish pound.
Come to The Banyan Tree to sample excellent Thai cuisine, made with fresh catch of the day.
Try the poo gathi, which is river crab meat in a spicy curry and the pla red prik (crispy fried fish).
With spicy masala mixes you can recreate the inimitable tastes and smells of Goa in your own kitchen – without spending hours at the mortar and pestle.
Step into any large provisions store and stock up on the spicy masala mixes responsible for those all-time-favaourite curries : xachuti, cafreal, balchao, and vindaloo, you can have them all at home.
Also worth picking up the pungent (stinky, say some) Goan sausages, or chouricos, as they are known locally.
A fiercely potent drink, feni is made either of cashew or coconut palm. 
Feni is sold under several brand names, but the ideal drink is the one concocted at a Goan home or a local watering hole.
Take a couple of bottles of Feni back home – whether you want to gift them to your friends or enemies depend on your taste.
Rather more palatable is the locally produced port wine, known as vinho do porto, while the better port brands are Bosco and Caravela.
For an authentic Goan experience, visit Astoria, run by Ida and Edwin Fonseca out of a converted old home.
The ambience in Astoria a hotel – cum – Restaurant is reason enough to visit, although the pork vindaloo with poe will have you clamouring for a second, and then third, helping.
To walk off your excesses, set out to explore the small spice and fruit plantation in Astoria.
Select from the catch of the day – lobsters, giant crabs, tiger prawn – and ask them to grill it for you.
In Goa the colourful flea markets are famous, but it is the lovely old villas that hide the best shopping – from antiques to haute couture.
A restored white – and – blue Portuguese villa with shady balconies all around it, Casa Goa is the place to go for antique furniture, paintings and sculpture.
Leading designer Wendell Rodericks also retails here at Casa Goa.
Wandering around Sangolda, set in a sprawling old Goan home, is a real pleasure.
Antiques and contemporary wrought iron furniture, swathes of linen, brass lamps, bric – a – brac and crockery are just a few of the lovely things available in Sangolda.
For exquisitely crafted hand printed blue – and – white ceramic tiles called azulejos, head to the Velha Goa Galleria in Panjim’s  fountainhas area- it’s the next best thing to buying them in Portugal.
The beautiful tiles are available in the form of wall-hangings, photo frames, coasters, plates and more.
Pick up one of the delightful tiles featuring Mario Miranda’s cartoons.
A vibrant hub where travellers from all over the world meet, the flea market, known as Ingo’s Saturday Night Market offers everything from Turkish Hukahs and pashmina shawls, through rare Sumerian beads and uncut gems to trance CDs and G – strings.
Whether it’s dreadlocks of afros, body piercing or tatto parlours Ingo’s has it all.
Ingo is foodies heaven too – sample souvalki, fondue, gazpaccho and more.
Even better you can shop to the sound of live music, performed by internation bands in Ingo’s.