The Chitragupta Temple is dedicated to the Sun God, Surya, while the Vishwanath Temple is dedicated to Shiva and his faithful vehicle, Nandi the bull.
The Matangesvara Temple, the only temple in this group, where worship continues, dedicated to Shiva and the Chausath Yogini Temple, presently in ruins and believed to be the oldest temple in Khajuraho.
The Shantinath Temple is again comparatively modern and was built a century ago with raw materials from older temples.
The Javari Temple dates back to AD 1075-1100 and are dedicated to Vishnu.
The Vamana Temple is slightly older than the Javari Temple, standing alone in the middle of a field.
For those who find that they simply cannot get enough of the temples and its grandiose display of temple art forms, here is a good place to continue being impressed.
Situated a short distance from the Western Group, the museum showcases statues and figurines, a lot of which have been recovered and restored from the ruins of the temples.
If you are lucky, the time you visit will coincide with some cultural festival or the other being held at the amphitheater, located within the Shipagram complex.
57 km. Located on the bank of a lake, the Dhubela Museum houses a wide variety of Shakti Cult sculptures.
Complementing the man made perfection of the Khajuraho temples is the dramatic scenic splendor of Panna National Park, 32 km away.
A mere 30-minute drive away from Khajuraho and extending over 543 km, spread along the banks of the River Ken, the park's topography is a magnificent one of deep gorges, tranquil valley and dense teak forests.
During the monsoons, the park is a lush green haven with cascading waterfalls.
The park's area includes the former shooting reserves of the erstwhile royal state of Panna and Chhattarpur and the jungles today harbor many species of wildlife.
The park can probably boast of the highest density of the Paradise Fly-Catchers.
This rich avian and faunal life combined with its picturesque scenery make a visit to the Park a memorable one.
Akshay-Teej festival takes place in April but the preparations for it begin early in the summer. 
Since mythology has it that Krishna was born in prison, the best and most elaborate jhankis (tableaux) are displayed at local police stations, which use the opportunity to enjoy a week-long cultural festival.
While the other festivals are localized, the Khajuraho Dance Festival attracts visitors from around the world.
For seven days, the country's most accomplished classical dancers, as well as upcoming talent exhibit their talents and hold an international audience spellbound.
Khajuraho is connected by regular bus services with Mahoba, Harpalpur, Satna, Jhansi, Gwalior, Agra, Jabalpur & Bhopal.
The nearest railheads are Mahoba (64 km) and Harpalpur (94 km), Jhansi (175 km) and Satna (117 km) are convenient railheads for visitors from Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Chennai, Agra & Varanasi.
Rajasthan is the Indian state which borders Pakistan on the western side of the country.
Rajasthan means "Land of the Kings" and the Rajputs who lived here for over a thousand years are known for their code of chivalry and honor.
The Rajputs were never a threat to the Moghul rulers of northern India, and perhaps that is why so many of their buildings and monuments still stand today.
The capital of Rajasthan was given a co lour coat of pink a century ago in honor of a visiting Prince and ever since, it has retained this co lour.
Built by Maharaja Jai Singh, the notable astronomer, the Jaipur city is 260 years old.
Amber Fort was the ancient capital of the State.
Visit the Sheesh Mahal or the Hall of Victory glittering with mirrors and ascend the Fort on Elephant back.
The Nahargarh or Tiger fort 15 kms to the north-west of the city provides a breathtaking view of the city.
Jaigarh - the fort of victory has the world's largest cannon on wheels.
Jaigarh Fort’s impressive water supply and storage system as well as the museum are worth seeing.
Sanganer is known for its Jain Temples and carvings, besides being famous for its hand made paper and block-printed fabrics.
Visit to Dilwara Temples consisting of five Jain Temples built by beginning of the 11th century onwards with intricate ornamental carvings represent the climax in the art of decoration in stone.
Visit also the Achalgarh Fort famous for its Shiva Temple
Before returning to your hotel, enjoy a boat-ride on the placid water of Nakki Lake studded with little islets.
Visit the Tomb of the Sufi Saint, Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti, and the Dargah Sharif. The
Ajmer city was founded by the Chauhan ruler, Aiaipal, during the 11th century and is dominated by the Taragarh Fort built by Prithiviraj Chauhan.
Keoladeo Ghana Bird Sanctuary in Bharatpur -one of the most spectacular water birds sanctuary features nesting indigenous water- birds as well as migratory water birds and water side birds.
From December on, the migratory geese, duck and cranes are the main feature of the sanctuary.
The Bikaner city is bolstered by imposing walls and has a 16th century fort housing old palaces, temples and a mosque.
Founded by Raja Rai Singh, the fort is distinguished by its long range of 37 pavilions, a line of balconies and aerial windows of varying designs.
Drive through the famous Gajner Wild Life Game Sanctuary where you can see & photograph Black Bucks, Chinkaras, Wild Boars, Blue Bulls and other animals in large herds.
Gajner Lake is surrounded by Palaces.
Gajner Wild Life Game Sanctuary is a unique place for watching and photographing the famous Siberian Imperial Sand Grouse in the mornings, in the winter months, when they come to the lake for drinking water.
113 kms. from Udaipur, the Fort of Chittor was originally built by mighty Bhim, one of the Pandava heroes of Mahabharata.
Also visit the Vijay Stambh with nine storeys and 37 mts high built by Maharana Kumbha to commemorate his victory over the muslim rulers of Malwa and Gujarat in 1440.
32 kms from Bharatpur, Deeg is an 18th century stronghold, whose massive fortifications are surrounded by luxuriant gardens, woods and pools.
Deeg is renowned for its palaces surrounded by gardens, tanks and fountains of artificially colored water.
Throbbing in the heart of the Thar, in burnished sandstone, Jaisalmer is an intricately molded wonderland - a city of gilded magic.
The Desert National Park is a vast stretch of protected Bio-sphere Reserve with an area of over 3000 square kms.
There is also the Great Indian Bustard's breeding site and exotic wildlife, where you can see the Indian Gazel, Chinkara, Eagles and many such birds and animals. 
In Jodhpur one can visit the Meharangarh Fort, situated on a low sandstone Hill, including Moti-Mahal and Phool Mahal.
Also visit Jaswant Thada, an imposing Marble Memorium built in 1899 and the museum located in the Umaid Public Gardens.
At the foot of the hills amidst gardens, commemorative cenotaphs line the silent city Mandore.
The 12th century Sachiya Mata temple has a large assembly hall with an elaborately carved ceiling and exquisitely sculptured figures of several Gods.
Mandawa Town was founded in 1755 by Thakur Nawal Singh and is still the home of his descendants.
Mandawa houses a collection of armories, costumes of ancestors, canons from 1820, ancient coins, numismatic, collection and many other interesting items preserved in a museum.
Mandawa castle, one of the finest castles of Rajasthan is now a beautiful hotel.
32 kms is north-east of Jaipur, Ramgarh is a favorite spot of the locals when the huge artificial lake is filled in the rainy season.
The ruins of the old fort and the temple of Jambwa Mata bear testimony to the first settlement of Kachhawahas before they moved to Amer.
Ranthambore National Park is Rajasthan's first Project Tiger reserve & named after a 1000 year old fort which stands in the park.
Ranthambore National Park has a congenial habitat for the stately sambar, the largest of all Asiatic deer.
Tigers, cital, wild boar and other animals are also found in the Ranthambore National Park.
Woodland, ground and water-birds abound the park including the uncommon red jungle fowl and varieties of eagles.
40 Kms north-west of Jaipur, now converted to a hotel, the old Palace of Samode surrounded by hills present a fairy tale picture.
Sariska National Park, the second tiger reserve of Rajasthan with 27,300 hectares holds dry deciduous forest.
Sariska National Park’s dense forests make its terrain an ideal one for the tiger, leopard, porcupine, chowsingha, rhesus and langur.
Boat cruise on Pichola Lake 4 km long and 3 km broad, surrounded by splendid hills, palaces, temples, bathing ghats and embankments.
Visit the famous temple of Eklingji built of sand stone and marble during 734 A.D; Its complex of 108 temples is enclosed by high wall. 
Visit the ancient palaces of Mewar dating back to the 6th century AD; the Sas Bahu Temples are among the most exquisitely carved temples.
Jaipur is an important centre on Indian Airlines north India network, and is connected with daily flights from Delhi, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Aurangabad and Mumbai. 
Jaipur Airport, 13 km from city centre (M.I. Road), is quite a small airport with all facilities housed in a single building. 
Jaipur, on Western Railway's meter gauge and broad gauge network, is very well connected with train services from many parts of the country. 
Jaipur is also, an important junction with direct services to most places of tourist interest. 
Jaipur Railway station is located only half a kilometer from city centre, Taxis, auto and cycle-rickshaws are available at the station for transfer to places in the city.
Jaipur is one of the best connected cities in the region with very frequent bus services. 
Deluxe bus services of Rajasthan Roadways also connect Jaipur with many important tourist centers in the state, like Kota, Jodhpur, etc.
Road distances to some important centers of tourist interest in the region are: Agra 230 km, Alwar 142 km, Bharatpur 176 km, Jhunjhunu 182 km, Jodhpur 332 km, Mandawa 190 km, Nathdwara 355 km, Sariska 111 km, Udaipur 374 km and Delhi 261 km
Located about 55 km by road from Agra on the Jaipur highway, the town of Bharatpur is an eastern gateway to Rajasthan.
The Bharatpur Palace houses a large number of exhibits dating back to the early 15th century.
Bharatpur, however, is famous for its proximity to the Keoladeo Ghana National Park which has the largest concentration and variety of birdlife in Asia.
This 29 sq km Keoladeo Ghana National Park is also the breeding ground for the rare Siberian Crane.
Just 176 kms from Delhi is a very special wilderness - the Keoladeo Ghana National Park, one of the finest water-bird sanctuaries in the world.
The 28.73 sq km lake and wetland was artificially created by the Maharaja of Bharatpur in the 19th century.
By building small dykes and dams and diverting water from an irrigation canal, he converted this low lying area into a fine wild fowl shooting preserve.
Commonly referred to as Bharatpur, the Park is a delight for bird watchers.
Over 300 species of birds are found here(Keoladeo Ghana National Park) and raised paths, camouflaged by babul trees and undergrowth make viewing easy.
A quiet ride by boat in the early hours of the morning is also an unforgettable experience.
There are mixed heronries on the half submerged babul trees and the cacophony is unbelievable as painted storks, open bills, spoon bills, egrets, cormorants, white ibis and multitudes of others, tend their young.
Jacanas with their iridescent colors and elegant tail feathers and purple moorhen can be seen delicately treading over the floating vegetation.
Every year Bharatpur waits with bated breath for the arrival of the Siberian cranes.
There are only two wintering places for this rare species one in Iran and other in Bharatpur.
These beautiful birds with their distinctive red beaks and facial patches fly over 6400 km from their summer retreats in Siberia.
The forest around the lake at Bharatpur harbours the sambar, chital, nilgai, jackal, hyena, fox, mongoose and porcupine.
Bharatpur is conveniently located on the Agra - Jaipur Highway, only 56 kms from Agra and approx. 175 kms from Delhi.
Bikaner was founded by Rao Bika, second son of the founder of Jodhpur.
A long city wall encircles the old city while all important buildings, including the fort and the palaces, are outside the city walls.
The late 16th century Junagarh Fort & Museum was constructed by Raja Rai Singh, a general in the army of Akbar, the Mughal emperor.
A major feature of the fort and palaces is the superb quality of stone carvings.
If you are going to Bikaner then don't miss the beautiful diwan-e-khas (private audience hall), Anup Mahal, Badal Mahal, Gaj Mandir and Hawa Mahal.