The Kullu Valley is also known as the Valley of the Gods. 
Rudyard Kipling has written, "Surely the Gods live here; this is no place for men".
It is situated on the banks of the river Beas on the lower reaches of the Himalayas.
Kullu is known for its ancient temples, apple orchards and the annual Dusshera Festival.
Kullu is also famous for its handicrafts and woolens like shawl, caps, puhla, namdas and patoos. 
The best time to visit Kullu is during Dusshera in the month of October.
A few kilometers from Manali is the Rohtang Pass, a place known for the divergent landscapes. 
You will find the rich greenery of the Kullu valley along with bare, brown mountains, glaciers and snowfields. 
The place looks lovely in the crisp sunlight. 
The Rohtang Pass lies in the district of Lahaul and Spiti. Due to its difficult terrain, not many tourists have ventured into this region. 
The place is untouched by the outside world of modernity.
Chamba is one of the oldest princely states and dates back its origin to 6th century AD. 
The town of Chamba is located in the colorful valley surrounded by the Shivalik ranges and has the district headquarters.
It is well known for its medieval temples and Chaugan, a public promenade.
The architecture of the buildings of Chamba reflects the aura of its former rulers. 
Chamba is also famous for its local festivals.
Kangra is a small town and was the capital of the erstwhile rulers of the Chand dynasty.
The hill station is placed at the foothills of the mighty Dhaulandhar range.
There are many old temples to visit besides enjoying the picturesque environs.
Khajjiar is a modest grass-covered meadow located in the enchanting valley of Chamba. 
It is an ideal getaway for picnic while traveling between Dalhousie and Chamba. 
The calmness of place provides a soothing effect to the tired tourists.
Tour to Mandi Kinnaur is a land of rich green valley, ripe orchards, vineyards, snow-covered peaks and cold desert mountains. 
The place is ideal for adventure sports like trekking; mountain climbing etc. the place attracts both young and old equally. 
The colorful dresses of the Kinnauri women and their sweet folk songs make the valley all the more bright and cheerful.
Mandi is district made out of two princely states of Mandi and Suket.
Mandi is situated on the left bank of the river Beas at an altitude of 800 m. above the sea level.
Mandi is comparatively hotter than other hill stations of Himachal Pradesh. 
At one time, there were almost 360 forts out of which only 10 are left.
You can take a look at some of the 81 Hindu temples in the area. 
In Mandi there are a couple of lakes to be visited.	
Shimla, the capital of Himachal Pradesh, is also called the "Queen of the Hill Stations". 
It was named after its patron Goddess Shyamla Devi, an incarnation of the Goddesses Kali. 
It was a small village made popular by the British who established Shimla as there summer capital in 1864 AD. 
The entire city is spread over a 12 km long ridge commanding the view of terraced hillsides and cultivations.
Shimla has the thick growth of forests of oak, pine, fur and rhododendron. 
There are variety of adventure sports like skiing, trekking, angling and golf for the tourists for their leisure activities.
Manali is a small hill town in the valley of Kullu. 
Manali is referred to as the "Cradle between the Lesser Himalaya". 
Manali is one of the most beautiful and popular hill stations known for lush and fresh scenic beauty. 
Manali is also a gateway to Lahaul and Spiti.
Dalhousie is at a distance of 80 km from Pathankot. 
It is nestled in the outer inclines of Dhaulandhar range.
The hill station is well known for its pleasant climate and beautiful scenery.
Dalhousie is spread over five hills and is different from other hill stations. 
The thick growth of deodars, pine and red and pink rhododendrons can be seen all around the hill station. 
Dalhousie is a gateway to the Chamba valley.
Kufri is a small hill station near Shimla. 
Kufri is an important tourist place because of its closeness with Shimla. 
Kufri is known for trekking and hiking trails. 
There are nature parks and picnic spots at Kufri. 
In winters, one can indulge in the winter sports like skiing and tobogganing.
Tour to Chail Dharamshala, at an altitude of 4000 m above sea level, it is located on spur of Dhaulandhar range. 
The town has rich growth of deodar and pine forests as well as tea gardens.
Dharamshala literally means 'the holy refuge'. 
Dharamshala was founded and developed by the British in 1855 as their summer resort.
Dharamshala is famous as the abode of the Dalai Lama and is called as the "Little Lhasa' because of the large number of Tibetan population. 
Their 'Government in Exile' has headquarters in Dharamshala.
Chail is a very small hamlet and a hill station where you can discover nature at its best untouched by the pollution, deforestation and modern construction. 
Chail is an ideal getaway for fresh and tranquil environment in the lap of the nature. 
The state of Himachal Pradesh was called 'Deva Bhoomi ' or the Land of the Gods. 
There are evidences of the existence of the pre-historic humans in this region.
It is generally believed that large inhabitants of this region had actually migrated from Central Asia and the Indian plains from time to time. 
The first race to enter Himachal Pradesh was Proto-Australoid followed by Mongoloid and the Aryan. 
The Rig Veda mentions about Dasyus and Nishads living in this region and their powerful king Shambra who had 99 forts. 
From the early period of its history, tribes like the Koilis, Halis, Dagis, Dhaugris, Dasa, Khasas, Kinnars and Kirats inhabited it.
The Aryan influence over this area dates back to the period before the Rig Veda. 
The Aryans with their superior war tactics defeated the local tribes and settled here permanently. 
The period also saw the establishment of small Janapadas or Republics in Himachal Pradesh. 
They maintained a good relationship with the Mauryans so that they can remain independent for a long time. 
They lost their independence with the rise of the Guptas in the North Gangetic plains. 
After the decline of the Guptas, several small kingdoms ruled this hilly state and established their power in its different regions.
Sankar Varma, the king of Kashmir exercised his influence over the regions of Himachal Pradesh in about 883 AD.
Bhimakali Temple Sarahan-History of Himachal Pradesh
This region witnessed the invasion of Mahmud of Ghazni in 1009 AD.
The Mughal rulers erected several works of art as an admiration of this land.
The Rajputs, under the leadership of Sansar Chand owned this region in 1773 AD, till the attack by Maharaja Ranjit Singh in 1804 AD, which crushed the Rajput power here. 
In about the early 19th century AD, the British exercised their influence and annexed the areas of Shimla after the Gurkha War of 1815-16.
The British established many hill stations in this region to protect themselves from the extreme heat and dust of the northern plains in the summer. 
Shimla became the summer capital of India and even today, many old houses and buildings tell the story of English grandeur.
Himachal Pradesh was made a centrally administered territory in 1948 with the integration of 31 hill states and obtained additional regions in 1966. 
It had the status of a union territory after independence till it was granted statehood in 1971.
Murud is today popular for its alluring beach, whispering casuarinas, coconut and betel palms, and an ancient fort.
On a hillock to the north is the shrine of Lord Dattatraya, the three heads representing Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara.
The 300-years old fort of Janjira is an architectural marvel- once upon a time considered to be impregnable. 
The palace of the Nawab and the Janjira caves are also a must for the tourist.
Just a few kilometers away are two undiscovered beaches Nandgaon and Kashid.
Nandgaon is famous for its Ganapati temple and the annual fair held in honor of this elephant headed god every February.
Roha on Konkan Railway is the nearest railhead. Mumbai is 165 kms. by road.
Maharastra is the perfect place to start on an enlightening tour. 
Except Maharastra no other coasting India offers you such a vast choice of majestic Ports like khanderi, Undheri, Malvani,   Goa, Murud, Sindhudurg and Suvarnadurg.
  Discover the real Maharastra while you soak up the soft sands.
There's so much you can do, study temple and churches, stroll through whispering coconut groves. 
Look for tiny, picturesque villages, acquaint yourself with different people & and their lifestyle.
Sample authentic Konken cuisine & Solkadhi,  bangda, pomfret, curry, modak, rice, chapattis, dishes with jackfruit, kokam  sherbet and, of course, the world famous Devgad alphonso.  
  You could arrange fun day  trips or get away on a weekend. 
Indulge in adventurous water sports or daydream on secluded, golden sands.
The coastal climate of Maharastra makes traveling pleasant all round the year.
Sea are rough only during the monsoon   which strikes between June and September - Depending on the kind of holiday you plan you can be positive that is no ordinary holiday.
Manori Beach, Maharastra Travel Guide, North of Mumbai, and away from its busting crowds and pollution, are these three gems that have become popular havens for Mumbai's beleaguered fun lovers.