The average lunchtime will see the streets filled with a seething mass of dark suits; the health conscious scurry to find a quick bite from one of the many excellent sandwich bars, while the more choleric disappear into one of the countless dungeonesque wine bars or city pubs where daylight is an ugly word and a lunch hour can conclude well after sunset.
 And yet, this unashamedly capitalist crucible hides another side.
On a weekend, the majority of ancient streets (which include part of the Roman Watling Street) are empty and silent.
Here you will find the very heart of London: the original settlement from which the rest of London has sprawled.
 Between the ultra modern office buildings lies a Diaspora of history from the great Victorian and Edwardian edifices of commerce such as the Royal Exchange to the Roman Temple of Minerva on Queen Victoria Street.
Around you are a dazzling array of churches - 39 Anglican (Church of England) and 7 other denominations.
Many were built by Wren as part of his grand scheme to resurrect London after the Great Fire of 1666 which started in Pudding Lane and decimated much of the city.
 These churches are resplendent in their classical elegance and fine internal furnishings.
Andrew-by-the-Wardrobe (so called because of it's proximity to Wardrobe Court which used to house the King's goods and chattels).
Bartholomew the Great  which stands near the 1,000 year old St.
It featured in the film Four Weddings and a Funeral as the spot of Hugh Grant's ill-fated marriage ceremony! 
The ghost of one of its former incumbents haunts the building, although he seems to be tiring of his earthly pursuits, as recent reports suggest the figure is getting fainter as the years pass.
The bustling sounds from the nearby Spital fields meat market and the general old world charm of this spot were endearing enough to lure John Betjeman, one the best loved Poet Laureates to buy a property nearby.
 Many of the churches in the City are known as 'guild churches' to some of the city's Livery Companies, ancient institutions which   
A fascinating area just to the north of the City which is an alluring mix of scruffy old character and trendy new vibrancy.
There are some lovely Georgian houses and historic churches sandwiched between old warehouses, many of which have been turned into flats.
Shakespeare, Hogarth, Lenin and Pepys have all had associations with Clerkenwell and some of the old trades such as printing and clock making still survive.
The latest occupants tend toward trendy media types which can be a mixed blessing!  Hatton Garden is the centre of London's jewellery trade, and you'll see many traditional Jews in frock coats and black hats plying their trade.
Clerkenwell Green is surrounded by particularly attractive buildings including St. John's Priory, the British headquarters of the Order of St. John whose ancestors were heavily involved in the Crusades to the Holy Land.
Strangely, despite being Catholic, the head of the order is The Queen (who is also Supreme Head of the Church of England!).
 Clerkenwell is a fascinating and varied area of London which is at last witnessing a period of regeneration and rediscovery.
Nearest Underground stops:  Chancery Lane, Farringdon, Russell Square   
The wide street that runs from Trafalgar Square towards the City is the Strand.
Playing host to a mixture of theatres, hotels, shops and Charing Cross railway station the Strand is invariably thronged with people and vehicles.
The world famous Savoy Hotel is set back on a small street which has the curious accolade of being the only one in London where it is obligatory to drive on the right! 
With Trafalgar Square behind you, you'll find the streets leading off the Strand to the right lead to the Thames while those on the left will take you towards Covent Garden.
 Covent Garden is now home to numerous interesting shops and market stalls as well as a myriad of street entertainers who perform at every opportunity.
It is a major tourist attraction and centers upon the piazza which was originally designed by Inigo Jones in the 1630s.
Surrounding the market are hundreds of shops, bars and restaurants which make the area buzz with vitality.
 Porters Restaurant on Henrietta Street provides splendid British food at very reasonable prices if you're in need of sustenance.
The London Transport Museum is a great place to take the children with heaps of interactive exhibits.
Also to be found here is the Theatre Museum packed full of theatrical memorabilia from the last 300 years.
Dominating a large part of the market place is the famous Royal Opera House which stages world class operatic and ballet performances and is home to the Royal Opera and Royal Ballet Companies.
  The London Coliseum is also just down the road on St.
Martin's Lane; this house the equally impressive English National Opera and English National Ballet.
The Theatre Royal on Drury Lane is an immense edifice and has the largest theatre auditorium in London.
First built in 1663 the site is the oldest in the world to have been continually in use as a theatre.
Uniquely the interior has two Royal Boxes, originally installed to keep King George III and his son, the future King George IV apart after they had a blazing row in the foyer! 
Although Covent Garden is usually packed with visitors, the area remains attractive and vibrant.
  Nearest Underground stops:  Charing Cross, Covent Garden, Embankment, Leicester Square   
The former docklands area, made redundant by changes in shipping that have concentrated on down-river Tilbury, has rightly been seen as an opportunity to revitalize the area.
Crucial to whatever was done was the creation of a decent public transport system and the result is the Docklands Light Railway   with its speed, comfort and good value.
 Views on the new Docklands in architectural terms may vary but it is beyond dispute that an exciting new area for living and working in has been created.
The list of shops reads right across the board with old-established names like Austin Reed and Boots rubbing frontages with Gap Kids and Top Shop.
 There is a great selection of over fifty bars, cafes and restaurants catering for the sophisticated to the earthier.
A recuperative intake of fine wine at Corney and Barrow's might help stave off the worst effects of a visit to your stockbroker, accountant or bookmaker even, never mind you’re Bank.
 But all of this would be of little value if it were not for the links provided by the Docklands Light Railway, with its system of driverless trains weaving ingeniously between ultra-modern architecture and smartly converted old warehouses, rather like a sedate roller coaster.
 London has the gift for creating cities within a City, which is why it doesn't really need a Mayor.
The new Docklands is a fine example of this ability.
Nearest Underground Stations:  Canary Wharf and Canary Wharf DLR.
Situated in the west of London, Fulham is often described as a 'poor man's Chelsea', although the property prices suggest the area is anything but poor.
In fact, Fulham is now an area filled with wealthy young professionals; a number of smart bars and restaurants have sprung up as a result and there are some good pubs including the White Horse on Parsons Green which has been voted London Pub of the Year on numerous occasions.
 Despite being relatively central, Fulham is also the home to two professional football clubs n Fulham and Chelsea.
Fulham Broadway has become something of a haunt for people wanting a lively night out.
New King's Road also has its share of energetic drinking venues and boasts Samuel Richardson (pioneer of the novel) as one of its most famous residents.
On the whole, the area remains largely residential with rows of modest but smart semi-detached Victorian houses lining most streets.
Nearest Underground stops:  Fulham Broadway, Parsons Green   
There are not too many defenders of the Millennium Dome around these days.
But if nothing else it has served to place the spotlight on what is undoubtedly a place for the future.
 To get there is easy thanks to the   Docklands Light Railway, six stops south from Canary Wharf.
 Until now Greenwich's main claim to fame has been that the world sets its clocks by their time.
In the Royal Greenwich Observatory a simple line on the floor defines where east meets west and the Prime Meridian, a hypothetical line joining the north and south Poles, also signifies Greenwich Mean Time from which all other time zones are measured.
 The National Maritime Museum is home to the world's largest maritime historical reference library, as well as a wealth of nautical exhibits and artifacts.
In the Old Royal Naval College, designed by Sir Christopher Wren, is the Painted Hall, a front runner for the title of finest dining hall in the world.
Here, after the Battle of Trafalgar, the body of Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson was laid prior to his State Funeral at St Paul's Cathedral.
 Down on the waterfront the Cutty Sark, last of the great tea clippers, enjoys a new existence as one of London's most popular attractions seen across the world every year as the London Marathon winds its past this historic ship.
 At The Greenwich Gateway, next to the Tourist Information Centre in Cutty Sark Gardens, a welcome to visitors to the town is given, backed up by an exhibition on historic Greenwich.
This is an excellent place from which to start your time in Greenwich.
  A fine array of places to eat and drink offers history, as at the Trafalgar Tavern in Park Row, contemporary chill at Time, in College Approach, or traditional at the Admiral Hardy, also in College Approach.
 Shopaholics will find plenty to intrigue in The Central Market, Greenwich's answer to Petticoat Lane, with an emphasis on vintage clothing.
Trendier is Frock brokers, an independent boutique, The Emporium, Essential Music in Creek Road or Decomania in College Approach specializing in 1920s - 1970s furniture.
Make no mistake about it, with its ease of access, waterfront location and sense of history Greenwich is the place that no self-respecting visitor can afford to miss.
 Nearest Underground stops:  Cutty Sark - for Maritime Greenwich DLR  
A slightly scruffy area suffering from an unsightly flyover cutting right through its centre, Hammersmith is home to the Apollo which hosts many top class acts and popular shows.
Just to the south of this the area becomes more attractive: the delightful Hammersmith Bridge built in the 1880s links the north and south banks of the Thames and has recently been fully restored.
 On the Hammersmith bank are a number of handsome Regency houses interspersed with riverside pubs and boathouses.
A little further along is The Dove, a pub close to the hearts of locals and Londoners; it was here that the traditional song Rule Britannia was composed by Thomas Arne in the 18th century! 
A regular haunt of the writer Graham Greene, its back bar is reputed to be the smallest in England measuring just 4ft by 7ft!
Just nearby is Kelmscott House, a gorgeous brick villa purchased by William Morris from the poet George Macdonald in the late 19th century.
It soon became a meeting place for contemporary writers such as Yeats and George Bernard Shaw.
The literary tradition is kept up: the current owner is playwright Christopher Hampton, best known for his screen adaptation of Dangerous Liaisons.
Nearest Underground stop is  Hammersmith   
The concept of London being made up of a series of villages is illustrated no better than in the delightful north London suburb of Hampstead.
Georgian in character and adorned with 800 acres of rolling heath land, Hampstead has always been a centre for literary activity and the intelligentsia.
Hundreds of small shops, very good restaurants and smashing pubs add yet more allure.
The place does become a little too crowded on Saturdays and Sundays, but a walk on the heath should relieve any sense of claustrophobia!  
Hampstead is the perfect place to spend a day simply strolling around: traversing the heath with its glorious views over London, navigating the little lanes and streets, peeking at the beautiful architecture and supping pints of ale at historic pubs.
 Kenwood House with its outdoor summer concerts and fine collection of art is worth a visit as is the nearby Spaniards Inn.
It was in this hostelry that the highwayman Dick Turpin hid from pursuing soldiers.
 For those with romantic tendencies, the house where poet John Keats lived is open to the public and includes many of his personal effects.
It was under a tree in the garden that Keats wrote Ode to a Nightingale.
However, he is by no means the only famous name to be associated with Hampstead: the borough has more blue plaques than any other!  Famous residents have included A.A.
Milne, Peter O'Toole, George Orwell, Peter Sellers, Cecil Beaton, William Blake, Dirk Bogarde, Richard Burton, John le Carrn, Agatha Christie, John Constable, Edward Elgar, Sigmund Freud and even Charles de Gaulle to name a few! Despite its beauty, Hampstead remains relatively untouched by the tourist hoards and therefore a perfect spot for a day out of central London.
 Nearest Underground stop:  Hampstead  
Pronounced 'hoe bern', this area is home to the distinctive Inns of Court: historic and beautiful sets of buildings where barristers have resided since the 13th century.
A walk through one of these Inns is often like stepping back in time, especially if you happen upon a barrister in his obligatory eighteenth century court attire.
The nature and atmosphere of these places is summed up by the story of a recent visitor who was walking through the gas lit courtyards on a dark Winter's night when out of the mist came a gaggle of elderly judges in their full bottomed wigs.
The hall at Middle Temple witnessed the opening night of Shakespeare's Twelfth Night in 1602 and contains a table made from the wood of Sir Francis Drake's ship.
 The 12th century Temple Church is well worth a look as is the fascinating and under visited Sir John Soane's Museum in Lincoln's Inn with its eccentric collections of paraphernalia.
Even more bizarre is the Hunterian Museum in the Royal College of Surgeons.