Wu yue is the collective name given to China's most important mountains, namely Mt. Taishan in Shandong Province, Mt. Huashan in Shaanxi Province, Mt. Hengshan in Shanxi Province, Mt. Songshan in Henan Province and Mt. Hengshan in Hunan Province.
It is said that you won't want to visit any other mountains after seeing wu yue but you won't wish to see even wu yue after returning from Mt. Huangshan.
Sayings may give you some idea of the beauty and uniqueness of Mt. Huangshan.
Together with the Yellow River, the Yangtze River and the Great Wall, Mt. Huangshan has become one of the great symbols of China.
Mt. Huangshan can boast not only of its magnificence but also its abundant resources and great variety of zoological species, for which it has been listed as a World Natural and Cultural Heritage Site.
The Li River cruise from Guilin to Yangshuo is the centerpiece of any trip to northeastern Guangxi Province. Gorgeous Karst peaks give you surprises at each bend of the limpid river under the blue sky.
Water buffalo patrol the fields, peasants reap rice paddies, school kids and fisherman float by on bamboo rafts.
With its breathtaking scenery and taste of a life far removed from the concrete metropolis, the scenery along the Li River become one of China's top tourist destinations.
The trip of the Li River starts from the dock south of Liberation Bridge in Guilin downtown area.
Otherwise some agencies will transport tourist to by a one-hour bus ride to catch the cruise.
The river trip is over eighty kilometers (52 miles) long and is estimated to take seven to eight hours. The eye-feasting landscape and country scenery will never disappoint you.
It is a Chinese tradition to divide the long trip into sections (just as the Three gorges along the Yangtze River) and give each peak an imaginative name
Although some take much of your imagination to see what it is like, listening to tour guide's legendary stories behind them is a delightful experience when you are appreciating the landscapes.
Elephant Trunk Hill, Situated majestically on the western bank of Li River, the hill resembles an elephant sucking water from the river with its long trunk.
Elephant Trunk Hill, is supposed to be the landmark of Guilin landscape, which you can find on travel brochures or books. 
The most impressive is said to be the water reflection of a moon-like cave when the moonlight sprinkles over the river, hence the name 'Moon over the Water'.
A few minutes down from the Elephant Hill on the west bank is a small hill topped with a pagoda.
The hexagonal pagoda is called Longevity Buddha Pagoda (Shoufo Ta) dating from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644).
It is said the second floor has stone Buddha figurines on display and the hill is compassed in Chuan Shan Park and In autumn, the hill illuminated with red maples is very charming.
Daxu Town perching on the northern bank of Li River, the ancient town keeps in its antique style from the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644).
A flagging street, lined with old residences, shops and stalls, runs two kilometers along the river bank through the town.
Some well-preserved residences hidden behind the street door may give you surprises you when you occasionally explore further into a shop.
Have a try on various dumping snacks on the stalls or peddle cars along the street; some will surprise you with both its taste and cheap price.
People in Daxu Town are very kind to tourists. Further to south, there is a single-arched bridge in the town named Longevity Bridge.
Daxu town is really a sight off-the-beaten track. Opposite the town on the other side of the river, a millstone-like rock with the running waters creates the scene of Grinding Grain.
Crown Cave (Guanyan), A crown-like crag earns the hill its name.
What makes the hill a worthy stop for both river cruise tourists and those arrive from Guilin City by bus tour is its twelve kilometer long water-eroded cave.
 It is a wonderland of various stalactite, stone pillars and rock formations in the Crown cave.
Since it is open to tourists in 1995, illuminating lights, sound control tour guide system and escalators are equipped in the scenic area and sightseeing cars and boats enable visitors to tour inside the cave.
The government plan to build this site as an all-round tourist area including cave visiting, country sightseeing and ethnic minority exploration.
It is estimated to become an important excursion site along the Li River and tourists can stay in the hotels and villas in the scenic area.
Half-Side Ferry (Ban Bian Du), Not very far from the Crown Cave on the western bank, a huge rock descends into the river and cuts off a footpath by the water edge. 
Villagers have to take a ferry to reach the other side and continue the way so, this spot gets its name Half-Side Ferry (for usually ferry means to transport people by boat across a body of water and reach the opposite bank)
Down stream from Yangdi to xingping, the river passes an endless procession of distinct peaks and bamboo groves and the stunning landscape.
This part is the highlight of the cruise and Pinnacled peaks pop up and surprise visitors at each bend of the river.
Water buffalos patrol on the fields; ducks paddle in the waters; peasants reap paddies in front of village houses; fishermen use the cormorants to catch the fish and return them to the boat and kids go home singing songs.
All these create an idyllic and beautiful scene of the life removed from concrete cities.
A reputed attraction is Mural Hill, a 100-meter-high cliff face, which has been weathered and has stratified rock surface in various shades of colors.
It is rumored that the colors present nine horses and a person who can identify them out is considered smart.
Legendary stories are given to hill rocks and peaks and it is a delightful experience to appreciate the stunning landscape while listening to tour guide's interpretation of the stories behind it.
Cormorants are good sized birds that enjoy diving underwater in search of fish.
Fishermen use the cormorants to catch the fish and return them to the boat.
The picture shows a cormorant fisher girl but I think the girl is just a model for shots.
The fisherman drives the birds into the water where they dive below the surface in search of fish. 
When the birds catch a fish they return to the boat and the fisherman removes the fish from their throat and places it in the basket.
The secret is that the fisherman places a cord around the bird's neck to keep the bird from swallowing the fish.
You will see buffalos gazing along the river bank or patrolling on the fields, they seem to be indispensable friends of peasants, especially for kids.
Boating downstream southward from the Mural Hill about 500 meters, peaks become steep and the river become wide and quiet.
A huge yellow flagstone lying under the limpid waters can easily be seen and it is like a cloth piece and people called it Yellow Cloth Shoal.
There are seven green peaks standing nearby. A legend goes that the seven peaks are fairy girls from the heaven who took baths in the river.
Enthralled by the charming scene, they stayed here and become into the peaks.
With verdant bamboos, the green peaks under the blue sky reflected on the quiet waters create a spectacular scene.
Sometimes, people doubt they see boats floating on hill tops; Many Chinese paintings and poems present this charming scene and tourists run out of their films for it.
The river takes a big turn at xingping and endowed with beautiful and poetic scenery.
It has been reproduced in many Chinese landscape paintings, even the newly-issued 20 RMB note has the scenery on its back.
A photographer once said: 'Shots from any perspective for this place turn to be impressive and stunning'.
A 'village' on the river bank is worthy a visit; Chinese call it a 'village' because of the fact that nowadays it is inhabited by villagers.
Actually, it is an age-old castle complex survived from over 500 years ago, although some courtyard buildings have weathered through ages, the simple but elegant flying-eaves, roofs with colorful paintings, lattice windows and unique timber structures present the folk residence from the Ming and Qing Dynasties.
The villagers have the same surname of Zhao, so it is rumored that they are descendents of the imperial family in the Song Dynasty.
Both Dr. Sun Yet-sun, the pioneer of China's democratic revolution and US president Colinton paid a visit to the village on their visits to Li River.
Li River cruise makes the small town known to foreigners, Yangshuo, located some 90 kilometers south of Guilin City, this town is the downstream end of the cruise but not the least.
The enchanting fairyland of Yangshuo is renowned as the best in Guilin.
The town is very small that everyone will know you after one month and the West Street in the town lined with western cafes, restaurants and hotels is the best choice for people who want to explore Chinese life.
Yangshuo is a great place for hikes and cycling excursions.
There's no doubt that taking a close-up exploration to the country villages, you will have a taste of the rural life.
One thing surprised us is the one-hour bamboo raft trip along Yulonghe River. We didn't expect the scenery to be such a paradise.
The Old Town of Lijiang, a well-preserved old city of ethnic minorities with brilliant culture, is a central town of the Lijiang Autonomous County of the Naxi Ethnic Minority in Yunnan Province. 
The Old Town of Lijiang, located on the plateau which is 2,400 meters (7,874 feet) above the sea level and embraced by the tree-covered Lion Mountain in the west, Elephant and Golden Row Mountains in the north, vast fertile fields in the southeast and crystal clear water running through, the old town looks like a big jade ink slab, therefore got the alias the Town of Big Ink Slab (Dayanzhen).
The Old Town which occupies an area of three point eight square kilometers (912 acres) was firstly built in the late Song Dynasty and the early Yuan Dynasty and has a history of more than 800 years.
Since Kubla Khan who is the first emperor of the Yuan Dynasty set his reign here, Lijiang was on a fast developmental way and became the political, cultural, and educational center in this area, playing a very important role in the trading activities among Yunnan, China hinterland, Tibet, India and many other Asian countries.
Till now, when walking on the streets of the Old Town, one can feel the prosperity and flourish of the town from the shops with fancy and superb collections of handicrafts.
The Lijiang Old Town is built along the lie of mountains and the flow of rivers, providing a very precious sample of the research on the old-time architecture.
The unique geographical location, historical background and multiracial inhabitants make Old  town the most special one.
The Old Town is the only old city built without a city wall and there is an interesting story telling the reason. Lijiang had been under the reign of the hereditary Mu family for more than 500 years.
If the Chinese character 'Mu' (represents the governor of Lijiang) is put into a frame (represents the city wall), you have the character 'Kun' which means 'siege' or 'predicament'. This would mean that the governing Mu family and their descendants would always be trapped like a rat in a hole
As a result of the combination of the multinational culture and the progress of Naxi ethnic minority, the buildings in the town incorporate the best parts of the architectural traits of Han, Bai, and Tibet into a unique Naxi style.
The layout of the town is free-style and flexible, the houses are close and diverse, and the lanes are narrow and meandering. Naxi people pay much attention to the decoration, the commodious and applied houses are mostly timber and tile structure compound with a garden, each has engraved vivid figures of people and animals on doors and windows, beautiful flowers and trees in the garden.
Living in such a beautiful and comfortable environment is a real pleasant thing in Old Town of Lijiang.
The old Town of Lijiang is a city depends on water for existence and water is just like its blood.
Black Dragon Pool (Heilongtan) is the main water source of the town and subdivides into many streams which can reach every family and every street in the town.
Due to the reticular aqueducts, willow trees grow everywhere and there are almost 350 varied and inimitable bridges in the little town, some of which were built in the Ming and Qing Dynasties.
The usage of the water created by the local people is very scientific; they build three mouths every well from the upriver to the downriver.
The water in the first mouth is for edibility, the second one is for cleaning of the vegetables and fruits, and the last one is used to wash the clothes.
The water not only meets the need of the dweller, but also gives the town a beauty of gentle.
The town reputed as the 'Oriental Venice' and 'Suzhou in Highland', but it is much, much more than this.
Once you have visited Old Town Lijiang, it will capture your heart for the rest of your life.
The center of the Old Town is the Square Street (Sifangjie), Four main streets radiate from Square Street and extend to the four different directions. Countless lanes extending in all directions form a network and connect every corner of the town.
Streets in the Old Town are paved by the local bluestones which are neither muddy in the rainy season nor dusty in the dry season.
The massive and fine-grained stones add a sense of antiquity and mystery to the Old Town.
The sluice at the center of town is opened late in the night and the resulting current of water flushes and washes all the streets to keep the town clean.
On December 3rd, 1997, the Old Town of Lijiang was put in the list of the World's Relics by the World Cultural Heritage Commission of the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization).
The charming Old Town is now a famous tourist attraction for its traditional ethnic culture and customs, inimitable buildings and the wonderful natural views.
Originally built by King Songtsen Gampo in the seventh century, Potala Palace is located on the Red Hill of Lhasa, Tibet.
Destroyed by lightning and war, Potala Palace had been rebuilt by the Fifth Dalai Lama in 1645.
Since then, Potala Palace has become the seat of Dalai Lamas and also the political center of Tibet.
The thirteenth Dalai Lama extended it to the present size, 117 meters (384 ft) in height and 360 meters (1,180 ft) in width, covering an area of more than 130, 000 sq meters (about 32 acres).
Mainly comprised by the White Palace (administerial building) and the Red Palace (religious building), Potala Palace is famous for its grand buildings, complicated constructions, devotional atmosphere and splendid artworks.
Upon entering the East Portal, visitors will come into the Deyang Shar courtyard where Dalai Lamas watched Tibetan opera.
West of the courtyard is the White Palace. As the winter palace of Dalai Lamas, the White Palace is a seven-floor building originally built in 1645.
The wall of the palace was painted to white to convey peace and quiet.