Manaus is definitely worth the visit, boasting delightful restaurants, an incredible theatre, and a relatively exciting nightlife.
Access to the forest is also feasible from Bélem, the capital city of the state of Pará.
In fact, in the recent past Belém has made exceptional strides in improving their capacity for tourism.
Belem is also conveniently located more proximate to the Northeast of Brazil.
The Amazon Clipper Cruise offers several short, simple and affordable packages to explore the region by boat.
Ecotour Expeditions operates the Motor Yacht Tucano, which provides the option of privately chartered trips, is more lavish, and offers longer itineraries.
Brazil Adventure International (a São Paulo based tour operator) offers hiking and trekking tours through the Atlantic Rainforest.
Numerous other local companies are also available to take you on similar adventures through the region.
Entrance to the Amazon via Alta Floresta, Mato Grosso state, is another option and flights are available from Cuiabá.
If you are in the Pantanal, the closest entrance to the Amazon is through São Jose do Rio Claro.
There are more than 40 Jungle Lodges operating within the Amazon Rainforest to choose from.
Depending on your interests, there are two wonderful seasons to make your visit.
From December through March, the water levels are lower, and from June to November, the water levels rise.
Simply avoid traveling from April through June during the rainy season, when your adventures can become nearly impossible.
Each city in Brazil celebrates its own unique Carnival.
In many smaller cities, people gather in social clubs, in the streets, and at parties during the Carnival.
Many cities hold parades and other community events during the annual Carnival.
Each Carnival reflects the diverse cultures of Brazil.
Carnival in the north may be completely different from Carnival in the south.
Regardless of where you decide to put your endurance to the test, and see just how much festivity you can possibly sustain, you are guaranteed to have an all around unforgettable experience. 
Carnival's roots go back to the ancient Romans and Greeks who celebrated the rites of Spring.
In the Middle Ages, when the Catholic Church tried to suppress all pagan ideas, it failed when it came to this celebration.
The Church incorporated the rite into its own calendar as a period of thanksgiving.
The nations of Europe, especially France, Spain, and Portugal, gave thanks by throwing parties, wearing masks, and dancing in the streets.
All three colonizing powers carried the tradition with them to the New World, but in Brazil it landed with a difference.
The Portuguese had a taste for abandoned merriment; they brought the entrudo, a prank where merry-makers throw water, flour, face powder, and many other things at each other's faces.
Prior to 1840, the streets of Brazilian towns ran riot during the three-day period leading up to Ash Wednesday with people in masks hurling stink bombs and squirting each other with flour and strong-smelling liquids; even arson was a form of entertainment. 
Italian wife of a Rio de Janeiro hotel owner changed the carnival celebration forever by sending out invitations, hiring musicians, importing streamers and confetti, and giving a lavish masked ball.
In a few years the masked ball became the fashion and the wild pranks played on the streets disappeared.
Roteiros de Charme, meaning "charming routes" in Portuguese, is a private non-profit entity currently linking 38 hotels, inns, and ecological resorts throughout the nation.
Roteiros de Charme is association was formed in recognition of their dedication to environmental preservation and social accountability.
The association has recently formed alliances with the United Nations Environment Program and the Earth Institute.
Each unique hotels awe-inspiring situation within the natural environment, honest charm and dazzling personalities are sure to win your heart.
Find accommodations according to various criteria, specifying your exact needs, making your hotel hunt as quick and painless as possible. 
www.hotelbrazil.com also provides hotel reviews, information regarding group reservations, city tours and excursions, transfer information, and city guides.
Many web sites offer temporary apartment rentals in the Copacabana, Ipanema, Leblon, and Leme neighborhoods of Rio de Janeiro.
They have one of the largest selections of properties found on the Internet, ranging from simple studios to luxurious penthouses and everything in between.
RIOCONDO - offers you excellent options to stay in great apartments, condo or studios, located in Rio's best and safest areas.
They also offer you personalized services for business or vacations, family or singles, to make your stay in Rio very comfortable and pleasant.
They will provide references from people all over the world. Visit their homepage to see pictures and prices, and to let them know how to assist you in the best way possible.
Brazilian Incentive and Tourism– this is a Brazil based travel agency that offers special tour packages, business travel, eco tourism packages and many other services.
Brazilian Incentive and Tourism’s website contains 8.000 pictures, 36 video clips and 3.500 pages of information.
Some websites offer hotels, apartments for short term rent in Rio de Janeiro, houses for rent, boat rental, and other tours and activities
Brazilian Trip was created to appease the needs of those who wish to go to Brazil to study Portuguese and learn all about the Brazilian culture.
Brazilian Trip company offers cultural immersion programs and it was founded by a group of experienced Brazilians professionals in the tourism field.
If you prefer to work with an agent, or encounter any difficulties in locating accommodation to suit your needs, please contact any of the selected highly experienced Brazil TRAVEL SPECIALISTS for assistance.
HIGH HOOK FISHING TOURS- offers unforgettable fishing experiences in unmatched surroundings.
The destinations are located in the heart of Brazil's lush Amazon rainforest- remotely situated, in the protected areas, close to the great expanses of some of the Amazon River's most beautiful and abundant tributaries 
Only the guests have exclusive access to fishing in Amazon Rainforest Area.
The wilderness settings are accentuated by the warm Brazilian welcome you'll receive on your arrival.
We offer air-conditioned facilities, serving the finest in regional cuisines, accented with an array of exotic tropical fruits.
Since getting there is half the fun, you'll be impressed and spoiled by the service and surroundings offered by the Red Carpet service of TAM Brazilian Airlines, on your flights to and within Brazil.
Passo Do Lontra Parque Hotel - offers a range of accommodation options, and also food service.
Passo Do Lontra Parque Hotel also offers ecological activities, boats and motors for sport fishing, experienced bilingual local guides, fuel station, mini-market, runway – all the comfort and security your guests needs and deserves at leisure times.
Built on slits due to the seasonal floods in the region, the facilities are in keeping with the environment, maintaining it as natural as possible and thus preserving the local fauna and flora.
Facilities include more than 2,000 meters of elevated walkways, which allow for a closer contact with nature.
If you prefer to work with an agent, or encounter any difficulties in locating accommodation to suit your needs, please contact any of the selected highly experienced Brazil TRAVEL SPECIALISTS or the  Brazil Tour Operators Association (BTOA) for assistance.
In some locations the opportunity to learn or practice skills such as underwater cave diving and ice caving are available in Brazil.
Nearly every region in Brazil provides great opportunities for sport fishing.
Brazil offers all that the fisherman could wish for: mighty rivers surrounded by tropical forests, rapids, lakes, endless stretches of beaches, mangroves and rocky coastline, not to mention the vast sea
Specialists from around the world are unanimous in classifying Brazil as among the countries richest in fish, and therefore an ideal destination for sport fishing - whether you prefer fly fishing, bait casting, spinning or angling with different baits.
We have provided detailed information about the four dominant fishing basins: the Amazon Basin, the San Fransisco Basin, the Ocean Basin and the Prata River Basin.
Hopefully this will help you decide where to go to best suit your interests, and indicate helpful tips about how to make your fishing trip a huge success.
The Amazon River is both the world's longest river, and holds the greatest volume of water.
The most biodiverse region on planet Earth and two thirds of the planet's flora and fauna biodiversity are found in the Amazon region.
Wide variety of rivers in the region provide endless options - choose from white water rivers, black water rivers, and clear water rivers. 
From November to March in Brazil, the Corrente do Mar Azul (stream of the blue sea) brings in White and Blue Marlins, Sailfish, Dourados, Wahoos, and Big Eye and Yellow Fin Tunas; fish normally only found in the open sea.
The mangroves stretch all along the ocean coastline providing diverse options, including coral reefs, soaring cliffs, sandy beaches, and much, much more.
In the past five years golf in Brazil has experienced a dramatic surge in popularity, with a sevenfold increase in registered players since the late nineties.
Exceptional new golf courses have been built or are under construction nationwide, many along the exquisite coastline.
Leading resorts are taking advantage of the new trend, constructing courses on their paradise-like premises.
The Brasilia Golf Club boasts a delightful lake-side 18-hole course designed by world renowned architect Robert Trent Jones, just 10 minutes from the city center.
In 2002 the European Professional Golf Tour held two of its stages at the Itanhangá and São Paulo Golf Clubs.
In 2004 the Brazilian Confederation of Golf (CBG) will be launching a tour called Get to Know Brazil Playing Golf.
For business or pleasure, golfing in Brazil is a surefire way to experience the good life.
Take a cyber-exploration through 14 extraordinary ecotourism destinations representing the incredible diversity Brazil has to offer.
Equestrians delight in the abundant options for riding destinations throughout Brazil.
In many cases, exploring regions of Brazil by horseback allows you to travel to places impossible to discover any other way, such as the wild Pantanal.
You can cover more territory, while experiencing the excitement and joy of bonding with such powerful animals.
Kayaking can be done within a wide range of intensity, depending on where the sport is practiced. 
Sea kayaking is practiced along the entire coastal zone of Brazil, presenting the challenge and thrill of conquering the waves while soaking up the extraordinary surroundings. River kayaking can be performed lackadaisically where currents and rapids are calm.
The Pantanal was named by UNESCO as both a World Biosphere Reserve and a World Heritage of Humanity site.
Pantanal holds the rights to many claims of grandeur - Beyond being the world's largest wetlands, 
Panatanal also contains the greatest biodiversity of animal species in the Americas, the Transpantaneira Highway featured in the Guinness Book of World Records as the highway with the most bridges and the longest open-air zoo in the world, the biggest freshwater boat-fishing festival worldwide, and the best place for wildlife sightings in all of Brazil.
The Pantanal offers the best photographic safari in the Americas! Contrary to popular belief, here you will encounter an abundance of wildlife far surpassing that found throughout the entire Amazon.
This region, and unique ecosystem, is home to approximately 670 species of birds, 242 fish species, 110 different mammals and 50 reptiles, in addition to the 1,500 plant species.
The constant polyrhythmic harmony of the flora and fauna creates an endless symphony.
The Pantanal is spread over 2 Brazilian states; Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.
The capitals of the two states, Cuiabá and Campo Grande, as well as the city of Corumbá are the most convenient access points to this ecological paradise.
Pantanal truly is paradise for nature enthusiasts of all walks of life. 
Whatever your passion, be it fishing, boating, birdwatching, wildlife, horseback riding or hiking - your greatest dreams will be fulfilled in the Pantanal.
If you are interested in visiting three ecosystems during your trip to Brazil, it is recommended that you travel to the state of Mato Grosso.
Here you will encounter the Pantanal wetlands, Amazon Rainforest, and savannah.
The closest Amazon destination accessible by land from the Pantanal is São José do Rio Claro.
If you are interested in visiting the Pantanal, and in addition enjoy trekking, wildlife, spelunking, snorkeling, and cave diving we suggest visiting Mato Grosso do Sul.
If you could be any animal in the kingdom, would you be a bird? As it does not seem likely that humans will evolve and grow wings during this lifetime, hang-gliding or para-gliding provides the opportunity to experience the grandeur of Brazil from a birds-eye-view.
There are many excellent destinations for rafting throughout Brazil.
By raft you are able to reach natural attractions impossible to travel to by foot, all the while surrounded by lush vegetation, and wildlife.
Whether you are a beginner or have years of experience under your belt, rafting Brazil's rivers promises an exhilarating experience.
To take advantage of the best of the best Rafting, we suggest you set out for your adventure from the states of São Paulo, Santa Catarina, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais, or Bahia.