King Tribhuvan is best remembered for his valiant efforts in liberating the nation from the rule of the Rana prime ministers
You may also wish to look out over Kathmandu from the Basantapur Tower in the complex.
It is said that a benevolent king used to keep watch over his people from this window to make sure that food was being cooked in every home (the smoke coming from the roof-tops told him whether or not a cooking fire was on in every house).
You may also wish to see the section that carries the mementos of King Mahendra and observe the Malla architecture and carvings.
Timings of tribal museum are : From 10:30 am to 3 pm, except Tuesdays and from 10:30 am to 2 pm, on Fridays
The Museum of Natural History museum is nearby the Swayambhunath Hill and has a fine display of Himalayan butterflies, snakes and plants. Though it is among the least frequented museums in the Valley, a visit to the museum will show you many rare birds and insect species.
Kaiser Library is near Thamel, the main tourist center of Nepal. Which contains a collection of 30,000 books of Kaiser Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana?
It is said that Kaiser Shumsher knew many of the books by heart and took pride in the diversity of the collection.
The gardens at the back of the Kaiser Library are also interesting and the Ministry of Education is located in the complex.
The National Bronze Art Museum has a collection of some of the finest pieces of bronze created by Valley artisans and the number of items is about 900. With good representations of both Hindu and Buddhist religions, the art work ranges from Malla to the later period.
The National Art Gallery is in the Palace of Fifty-five Windows.
The National Art Gallery is believed to be the first in the Kathmandu Valley to use glass, much coveted by the ancient rulers.
Within the palace are beautiful paintings of erotic motifs, paubhas, and animals.
The National Woodworking Museum in Dattatreya Square often surprises visitors.
Upon entering the museum, guests ask for the exhibits. However, the building itself is the museum and contain very finely carved pillars, windows, doors, and struts.
Wood was a major constructing item long before that time but not much survives due to the adverse effects of time and weather.
The Bronze and Brass Museum is housed in a newly renovated building near the Pujari Math, Much of the displays have been restored and are in excellent condition.
Among the displays are items of everyday use to the ordinary people as well as items used by the rich and the famous of Malla times.
Platters for worship, lamps, water pots, horns, and other items tell the visitor how the people in Bhaktapur led their ordinary iives.
Asa Archives is located on the western fringe of the old part of Kathmandu, the archives possess an exceptional collection of over 6,000 loose leaf handwritten books and 1,000 palm-leaf documents.
The oldest manuscript in Asa Archives dates back to AD 1464. Most of the manuscripts are in Sanskrit and Nepalbhasa languages.
The Patan Museum is inside Patan Durbar in the Durbar Square specializes in bronze statues and religious objects, which add up to nearly 900 items.
Some of the art goes back to as early as the llth century and there is evidence that certain objects date from the period of the Lichhavi kings.
Most of the statues are of Buddha, Bishnu, Lokeswar, and Devi, covering both the Hindu and the Buddhisf iconology.
The museum has recently been completely renovated which has enhanced its appeal.
Royal Chitwan National Park, the oldest national park in Nepal, is situated in the subtropical inner Terai lowlands of South-Central Nepal this park was designated as a World Heritage Site in 1984.
Royal Chitwan National Park covers a pristine area with a unique ecosystem of significant value to the world which contains the Churiya hills, ox-bow lakes and flood plains of Rapti, Reu and Narayani Rivers. Approximately 70% of the park vegetation is sal forest.
The Saccharun species, often called elephant grass, can reach 8 m. in height. The shorter grasses such as Imperata are useful for thatch roofs.
Royal Chitwan National park is especially renowned for the endangered one-horned rhinoceros, the tiger and the gharial crocodile along with many other common species such as gaur, wild elephant, four-horned antelope, striped hyena, pangolin, Gangetic dolphin, monitor lizard and python.
Other animals found in the Royal Chitwan National park include the sambar, chital, hog deer, barking deer, sloth bear, palm civet, langur and rhesus monkey.
Among the endangered birds are the Bengal florican, giant hornbill, lesser florican, black stork and white stork.
Common birds seen in the park include the peafowl, red jungle fowl, and different species of egrets, herons, kingfishers, flycatchers and woodpeckers.
The best time for bird watching is March and December. More than 45 species of amphibians and reptiles occur in the park, some of which are the marsh crocodile, cobra, green pit viper and various species of frogs and tortoises.
The Royal Chitwan National park is actively engaged in the scientific studies of several species of wild fauna and flora.
Situated in the Central Himalaya, Langtang National Park is the nearest park from Kathmandu.
Langtang National Park encloses the catchments of two major river sisters: one draining west into the Trisuli River and the other east to the Sun Koshi river.
Some of the best examples of graded climate conditions in the Central Himalaya are found here.
The complex topography and geography together with the varied climatic patterns have enabled a wide spectrum of vegetation type to be established.
Oaks, chir pine, maple, fir, blue pine, hemlock, spruce and various species of rhododendron make up the main forest species.
Along with the existing forest cover, approx. 25% of the total area provides habitat for a wide range of animals including wild dog, red panda, pika, muntjack, musk deer, Himalayan black bear, Himalayan tahr, ghoral, seraw, rhesus monkey and common langur.
The Trisuli-Bhote Koshi forms an important route for birds on spring and autumn migration between India and Tibet.
About 45 villagse (846 households=ca. 4500 people) are situated within the park boundaries, but they are not under park jurisdiction.
In total, about 3000 households (ca. 16,200 people) depend on the park resources for wood and firewood.
Culturally the area is mixed, the home of several ethnic groups which have influenced the natural environment over the centuries.
Royal Bardiya National Park is situated in the mid far western Terai, east of the Karnali River.
Royal Bardiya National Park is the largest and most undisturbed wilderness area in the Terai, about 70% of the park is covered with dominantly sal forest with the balance a mixture of grassland, savannah and riverine forest. 
The park provides excellent habitat for endangered animals like the rhinoceros, wild elephant, tiger, swamp deer, black buck, gharial crocodile, marsh mugger crocodile and Gangetic dolphin.
A good number of resident and migratory birds are found in the park.
Endangered birds include the Bengal florican, lesser florican and Sarus crane. More than 30 different mammals, over 200 species of birds, and many snakes, lizards and fish have been recorded in the park's forest, grassland and river habitats
Shey-Phoksundo National Park is situated in the mountain region of western Nepal, covering parts of Dolpa and Mugu Districts. It is the largest national park in the country.
The park contains luxuriant forests, mainly comprised of blue pine, spruce, cypress, poplar, deodar, fir and birch.
The Jugdula River valley consists mostly of Quercus species while the trans-Himalayan area has a near-desert type vegetation of mainly dwarf juniper and caragana shrubs.
The park provides prime habitat for the snow leopard and the blue sheep.
Other common animals found in the park are ghoral, Himalayan tahr, serow, leopard, wolf, jackal, Himalayan black bear, Himalayan weasel, Himalayan mouse hare, yellow-throated marten, langur and rhesus monkeys.
The park is equally rich in many species of birds, such as the Impeyan pheasant (danphe), blood pheasant, cheer pheasants, red and yellow billed cough, raven, jungle crow, snow partridge and many others.
Rara National Park is located in north-west Nepal about 371 km air distance from Kathmandu. Most of the park, including Lake Rara, lie's in Mugu District; a small area is within Jumla District of Karnali Zone.
Rara National Park is the smallest park in Nepal, containing the country's biggest lake (10.8 sq kms) at an elevation of 2990 m.
The area around the lake is dominated by blue pine, black juniper, West Himalayan spruce, oak, Himalayan cypress and other associated species.
Deciduous tree species like Indian horse-chestnut, walnut and Himalayan popular are also found in Rana National Park.
Animals found in the Rara National park include Himalayan black bear, leopard, ghoral, Himalayan tahr and wild boar.
Snow trout is the only fish species recorded in the lake.
Resident Gallinaceous birds and migrant waterfowl are of interest to park visitors.
The great-crested grebe, black-necked grebe, and red-crested pochard are seen during winter.
Common birds are the snowcack, chukor partridge, Impeyan pheasant, kalij pheasant and blood pheasant.
Makalu-Barun National Park And Conservation Area are situated in the Sankhuwasabha and Solukhumbu Districts, bordered by the Arun River on the east, Sagarmatha (Mt. Everest) National Park on the west, the Nepal-China border on the north and the Saune Danda (ridge) to the south.
Nepal is the home of the world's highest mountains, with a strong historic tradition having population of more than 18 million people of different religion and Culture.
There are many beautiful and interesting cities in Nepal including Kathmandu (Capital), Patan, Bhaktapur, Pokhara, Chitwan, Lumbini, Tansen etc., known for their natural beauty.
Nepal offers exciting opportunities for trekking, rafting, and mountain flight. Jungle safari is an exciting excursion to undertake when life is too overwhelmed with the mundane things of life.
Nepal offers wide range of hotels providing warm hospitality, friendly welcomes and maximum ecstasy.
The National Museum is the most popular among the Kathmandu people.
The museums has a collection of some of the finest pieces of bronze, coins of second century B.C, beautiful paintings, 6,000 leaf handwritten books and 1,000 palm-leaf documents and more.
More than 10% of Nepal's land area is covered by National Parks & Wildlife reserves.
Over 30 species of Large wild animals and 180 Species of mammals make their home in these National parks of Nepal.
Nepal is known for its continous festivals. Nepalese are said to observe more festivals than there are days in the year.
Some of the major and interesting festivals are given in this category.
There are numerous tourist shops on the main streets and in the arcades of hotels, bursting with tempting jewelleries, image, carpets, clothes and typical Nepalese crafts and much more.
Almost every kind of food like Chinese, Indian, Continental, Japanese, Tibetan, Napalese etc. representing the culinary arts of many parts of the world, can be found in restaurants of Nepal.
Tribhuvan International Airport is the only international airport in Nepal.
Royal Nepal Airlines- the national flag carrier of Nepal and other International Airlines operate flights to Kathmandu from Bangkok, Colombo, Calcutta, Delhi, Dhaka, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Karachi, Lhasa, London Osaka, Paris, Moscow, Paro, Singapore and Varanasi.
The International Airlines operating their flights into Kathmandu include: Aeroflot, Biman Bangladesh Airlines, China South-West Airlines, Druk Air, Indian Airlines, Pakistan International Airlines, Singapore Airlines and Thai international.
The entry points at Nepal-India border are; Kakarbhitta, Birgunj, Belahiya (Bhairahawa), Nepalgunj, Dhangadi, and Mahendra Nagar while the only entry point at Nepal-China border is Kodari.
Kathmandu is connected with India through the fertile plains of the Terai by the most picturesque highways.
Visitors are permitted to drive their own cars but their vehicles must possess an international carnet.
There are regular bus services to kathmandu from all the border points.
The interior parts of the country are also linked with a number of motorable roads. Buses for the different parts of the country are available at the Gongabu bus terminal which is located near Balaju.
Nepal Janakpur-Jayanager Railway (NJJR) operates afreight and passenger service in the eastern Terai.
The Royal Nepal Airlines operates an extensive network of air service in the interior parts of Nepal.
The Royal Nepal Airlines has scheduled connection flights from Kathmandu to TapIeJung, Bhadrapur, Rajbiraj, Bhojpur, Phaplu, Lukia, Lamidanda, Tunmlingtar, Rumjatar, Biratnagar, Simra, Janakpur, Ramechhhap, Bharatpur, Meghauli Pokhara, Jomsom, Manang, Baglung, Bhairahawa Nepalgunj Chaurjhahari, Surkhet, Dang, Dolpa, Jumia, Bajura, and aitadi, Dipayal, Darchula, Mahendranagar, Dhangadi, Tikapur and Sanfebagar.
Beside Rdyal Nepal Airlines the other domestic airlines such as Nepal Airways, Everest Air, Asian Helicopters, Necon Air, Lumbini Airways and Cosmic Airways also provide regular and charter services to different popular destinations.
There are taxi and auto rickshaws (three wheelers) with fare meters in Kathmandu and Motorcycles, bicycles and rickshaws are also available.
All visitors to Nepal must hold valid passports and visa.
The Royal Nepalese Embassies or consulates abroad or the entry points or the Immigration Offices provide a visa upon the presentation of a valid passport, two passport size photos and a payment of visa fees.
Tourists can extend their visas at the Department of Immigration, Tridevi Marg, Kathmandu.
Entry Visa to Nepal is easily available at all International Airports of Nepal.
Tourists are required to fill up disembarkation and embarkation cards upon their arrival and departure.
The unit of the Nepalese Currency is Rupee. One Nepali Rupee is made up of 100 paisa. Nepali Rupee notes come in Rs. 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, 1,000 denominations.
Foreign visitors other than the Indian nationals are required to pay their hotel bills and air tickets in foreign currency.
However the other payments must always be made in Nepalese currency which can buy at foreign exchange counter at the airport.
The foreign currency exchange counters of different banks are also opened at different places in the city.
Tourists other than Indian are not allowed to import or export the Indian currency.