The rare and graceful Guará, resembling a flamingo with a long, curved beak, is found only on Caju Island.
There is only one small pousada here, but the ecotourism options are endless! Another unforgettable option is to stay in one of the surrounding towns, where the infrastructure for ecotourism is developing rapidly, while maintaining its historical charm from the days when it was the seventh largest port in the country.
Fly into Teresina, the capital of the state of Piauí, and from there to Parnaíba the drive is 220 miles, followed by a 4 hour boat ride to Caju Island.
While the temperature is hot all year round, it is best to visit Caju Island during the rainy season, between January and June when the lagoons are full, and best for swimming. 
Chapada Diamantina, the surrounding 152,000 hectare national park, and the gateway city Lençóis, welcome you with rare natural spectacles and nostalgic charm.
Make sure to mingle with the townspeople once you have retired to the bars and restaurants for a taste of savory sun-dried meats and Axé music, as the stories you will learn are sure to add yet another element of enchantment to the region.
Chapada Diamantina earns its place on the list of ecotourism musts in Brazil, as it holds numerous natural records and monuments.
Lapão Cave is the largest quartzite caves in the Americas, excellent for experienced rappellers.
If you are an experienced cave diver, in search of an adventure, Chapada da Diamantina should be high on your list.
Fumaça Waterfall, at 1,020 feet, is one of the highest in Brazil - however, the volume of water is not sufficient to maintain its liquid state throughout the long drop to the bottom.
Iguassu Falls are the widest in the world, and in the Native Tupi-Guarani language, guazu means big, and I mean water.
There are a total of 275 falls, forming a gigantic semi-circle 8,100 feet long, with millions of gallons of thundering water plunging to depths 250 feet below.
The semi-circular falls bring together both the Iguassu and Parana Rivers, as well as Brazil and Argentina.
The infinite wonders of Iguassu cannot be described in words.
The falls are surrounded by a National Park containing the world's largest pluvial forest, home to 12 species of amphibians, 18 species of fish, 40 species of mammals, including the jaguar, ocelot, capybara and giant river otter, 60 different reptiles, 340 bird species, and 700 unique species of fluttering butterflies!
A new project is currently being developed by the park administration which will facilitate adventure sports such as hiking, rafting, canyoning, canoeing, boia-cross, and camping.
Numerous daily flights service Iguassu Falls from airports throughout Brazil, connecting through São Paulo. 
Depending on your interests, different seasons will be perceived as more ideal than others to make this venture.
When there are high levels of rainfall, the falls are at their fullest and most powerful state.
If you are more interested in exploring the National Park, it is better to aim for drier seasons in order to ensure access to the majority of trails.
Hours of Operation: The Iguassu National Park is open to the public from 1:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Mondays, and 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Tuesday through Sunday. 
Baía do Sancho, Baía dos Porcos and Praia do Leão are among the ten most breathtaking beaches in Brazil.
Baía dos Porcos and Baía do Sancho are two of the most highly rated diving destinations (link to diving section Fernando De Noronha) in the country, and Praia do Leão is home to abundant sea-turtle spawning. Lucky for you, travelers to the Archipelago of Fernando do Noronha (link to 14 Green Destinations Fernando de Noronha) have the good fortune of experiencing all three beaches in one trip!
Located approximately one and a half hours by plane from the Northeast coastal cities of Natal and Recife, Noronha is well worth the time it takes to arrive.
Visitors to the Island must pay a conservation fee, and goods and services on the island tend to be relatively expensive.
As there are limits on the number of tourists allowed on the island, it is advisable to book in advance in order to avoid the risk of joining the waiting list. High
Espelho and Coruípe are two interconnected beaches surrounded by lush coconut groves, enticing reefs, natural pools soaring white and red rock cliffs.
Access to this paradise is from BR-101 between the towns of Trancoso and Caraiva.
The Monte Pascoal National Park is well worth a bit of exploration while you are there, particularly, if you are interested in Indigenous culture, as the Pataxós tribe controls access to the park.
In Canoa Quebrada you will find spectacular beaches surrounded by rolling dunes and picturesque rocks.
Both day and night the animated local bars and restaurants are alive with people dancing to many types of music.
Canoa Quebrada is approximately 100 miles from Fortaleza, one of the fastest growing tourism destinations in the country, and a true gem of the Northeast.
For those seeking non-stop excitement, plan your visit between December and March, or during the month of July.
August is high season in Canoa Quebrada, when the town quickly fills up with European tourists.
Brazil's origins - the Indians with their reed flutes, the Portuguese with their singers and viola players, and the Africans with their many thrilling rhythms - make it a musical country.
From the classical compositions of Villa-Lobos, to the soft sounds of bossa nova to the driving beat of samba, Brazil has developed music of striking sophistication, quality, and diversity.
When the Jesuit fathers first arrived in Brazil they found that the Indians performed ritual songs and dances accompanied by rudimentary wind and percussion instruments.
The Jesuits made use of the music to catechize the Indians by replacing the original words with religious ones using the Tupi language.
Music accompanied the sacramental ceremonies which were performed in village and church plazas.
African music was introduced during the colony's first century and was enriched by its contact with Iberian music.
One of the most important types of music used by the Negro slaves was the comic song - dance called lundu.
the second half of the l8th century and during the 19th century, the sentimental love song called the modinha was popular and it was sung both in Brazil's salons and at the Portuguese Court.
Schools of music existed in Bahia in the early 17th century and religious music was played in churches throughout the colony.
As with other art forms, musical activity intensified with the arrival of the Royal Family in 1808.
Local musicians also attracted the King's attention, such as José Nunes Garcia (1767-1830) who was a notable improviser on the organ and clavichord.
João VI appointed him Inspector to the Royal Chapel, a body which had more than 100 instrumentalists and singers, many of whom were foreigners.
By the end of the century, Carlos Gomes (1836-1896), born in the town of Campinas in the state of São Paulo, produced a number of operas in the prevailing Italian style, especially Il Guarany, an opera eased on a famous Brazilian novel by José de Alencar about a colonial villain who incites an Indian attack in order to gain a Portuguese nobleman's treasure and his daughter as a bride.
Brasílio Itiberê (1848-1913) was the first Brazilian composer to use a popular national motif in erudite music.
Brazil's popular music developed parallel to its classical music and it also united traditional European instruments - guitar, piano, and flute - with a whole rhythm section of sounds produced by frying pans, small barrels with a membrane and a stick inside (cuícas) that make wheezing sounds, and tambourines.
In the mid 1960's, the haunting, story-telling lyric of The Girl From Ipanema, carried by a rich melodic line, was the first big international hit to emerge from the bossa nova movement of Brazilian singers and composers.
At first bossa nova was played as an intimate music in the apartments of Rio's middle and upper-middle classes.
Later on bossa nova became a trademark of a new concept of music - a little sad, sometimes sung off-key, and where the lyrics have great importance.
Popular regional music in Brazil includes the forró from the northeast where the accordion and the flute join guitars and percussion in a foot-stomping country dance; the frevo, also from the northeast, which has an energetic, simple style; the chorinho (literally little tears) from Rio which combines various types and sizes of guitars, flutes, percussions, and an occasional clarinet or saxophone in a tender form of instrumental music; and the internationally successful lambada.
When danced, lambada is sensual and fast-paced; it got its name from the Portuguese verb to whip or flog referring to the smacking of thigh against thigh.
Some people believe that samba was born in the streets of Rio de Janeiro with contributions from three different cultures - Portuguese courtry songs, African rhythms, and native Indian fast footwork.
Others believe samba is simply African in origin and that it evolved from the batuque, a music based on percussion instruments and hand clapping.
Today in Brazil, popular music continues toexplore new rhythms and new melodies.
Some of the well-known performers are: Maria Bethania, Alcione, Roberto Carlos, Cazuza, Ney Matogrosso, Rita Lee, Milton Nascimento, Hermeto Pascoal, Fafá de Belém, Chitãozinho and Chororó, Elba Ramalho, Alceu Valença, Luiz Gonzaga, Luiz Gonzaga Jr., João Bosco, Djavan, Ivan Lins, Marisa Monte, and Elis Regina.
From the 16th century, Roman Catholic churches and convents in Brazil were decorated in the European style, often by Brazilian craftsmen who had been trained in European methods.
During the 17th and 18th centuries, baroque and rococo patterns imported from Portugal dominated Brazil's religious architecture and its interior decor.
The most impressive artist of the whole colonial period was the architect and sculptor Antônio Francisco Lisboa (1738-1814), better known as Aleijadinho (the Little Cripple).
In mid-life Aleijadinho contracted a crippling disease, but he continued to work for another 30 years with chisel and mallet strapped to his wrists.
In the neighbouring town of Congonhas do Campo, at the Church of Bom Jesus de Matosinhos, Aleijadinho sculpted 12 life-sized soapstone statues of the Prophets and placed them on the terrace and staircase outside the entrance.
In front of the church's terraced stairs, in six small devotional chapels, he created the Stations of the Cross with 66 poignant statues in cedar wood.
During the last four decades of the 18th century, new art appeared (especially in Rio de Janeiro) in which religious themes were no longer predominant.
Works with temporal themes, such as portraits of exalted personages, became part of Rio's artistic production.
At the beginning of the 19th century there was a process of Europeanization with the coming of the Portuguese Court to Brazil as the result of the invasion of Portugal by Napoleon Bonaparte's troops.
Dom João VI, the refugee Portuguese monarch, encouraged Rio de Janeiro's intellectual activity, founding cultural institutions such as the Royal Press and the National Library.
Artists such as the Taunay brothers, architect Auguste Grandjean de Montigny (1776-1850), and painter Jean-Baptiste Debret (1768-1848) were part of the group.
Debret, the most important of the French artists, systematically documented landscapes, people, and rural and urban customs.
The tradition established by Debret and his colleagues was so strong that neoclassicism and participation in academies ruled Brazilian visual arts well into the Republican era.
At the Week of Modern Art held in São Paulo in 1922, artists discussed their dissatisfactions with the academic world in all fields of the Brazilian arts.
Although it is not clear if the 1922 movement caused or coincided with some changes in outlook but it certainly opened broad new avenues such as the critical pursuit of quality, the search for new values, and the rejection of the old European stereotypes.
There was no precursor of genius in Brazilian painting: in the 1920's painting simply emerged out of the shadows of the academy and joined the wave of innovation then sweeping Europe.
The techniques were imported, but the moods and themes were clearly Brazilian.
One of the most important participants in the Week of Modern Art was Emiliano Di Cavalcanti (1897-1976), a true Bohemian from a family of poets and generals who liked to carouse in the underworld of Rio and paint seductive, mulatto women.
Cândido Portinari (1903-1962) was one of the first Brazilian artists to paint his way to international fame.
Portinari captured in his canvases the way of life of ordinary people, conveying their joys and sufferings in a dramatic way.
The universality of Portinari’s work led to invitations and commissions from many sources, among them the monumental murals at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC and murals on the theme of war and peace at the United Nations in New York.
World War II brought about an interruption in the contact of Brazilian artists with the international art world, even though many foreign artists lived in Brazil.
In the late 1940's the Modern Art Museum was founded in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo got two museums - the Art Museum of São Paulo founded by Assis Chateaubriand and the Museum of Modern Art.
The São Paulo Biennial, founded in 1951 by Francisco Matarazzo Sobrinho, helped to call Brazilian artists to the attention of an international audience, and to introduce foreign artistic innovations to Brazil.
Brazil's painters, sculptors, engravers and lithographers show their works both within Brazil and in museums and galleries throughout the world.
The Portuguese who first landed on Brazilian soil in the 16th century began the transplantation of European culture to Brazil. While the Portuguese were still forming small, cautious groups to explore the unknown beaches, native Indian potters were at work.
Musicians and dancers decked out in fibre masks, plaited straw, and fantastic, feather helmets were retelling the legends of the flood and the creation.
Brazilian Culture is more than the simple result of specific contributions by Europeans, Africans and Indians.
Brazilian folk arts are among the richest and most varied in the hemisphere.
Brazilian folk dance and folk drama are rich forms of popular artistic expression.
Subject, rhythm, costume, and choreography reveal the three principal components of the nation's culture in a complex interaction.
There are dozens of Brazilian folk dances - everything from dramatizations of the early wars between the Portuguese and the Indians (Caboclinhos and Caiapós performed in the states of Pernambuco and Alagoas), to the Cavalhada of Pirenópolis in the state of Goiás, a theatrical pageant, lasting three days, which depicts the fight between the Christians and the Moors on the Iberian Peninsula.
In addition to the folk dances, there are many dance dramas (really theatrical productions) popular in Brazil that trace their histories directly to the Middle Ages.
Portuguese in origin, these dance dramas have been modified considerably by centuries of exposure to Brazil's diverse cultures.
Mario de Andrade, the great authority on national folklore, has classified these dance dramas into four principal groups: reisados, cheganças, pastoris, and ranchos.
The Reisados consist of a series of 24 folk plays of which the most popular is the Bumba-Meu-Boi
The plot of the Boi drama centers around the misfortunes of the prize bull which a wealthy cattle rancher has arduously searched for to improve his herd.
Cheganças (arrival) is a folk play performed during the Christmas season it tells of the arrival by sea of the Moors, their defeat, and their eventual baptism by the Christians.
Pastoris (shepherds) started as a performance of Christmas carols in front of the Nativity scene in preparation for midnight mass.
Female street revelers parade in parallel lines called the red and blue lines and Each line has the same characters: the teacher; Diana, the pretty angel; the gypsy; the old man (a comedian); the Northern Star; and the Southern Cross; among others.
Among the most primitive forms of carnival, as celebrated in Rio de Janeiro, were the ranchos, solemn and romantic love stories acted out by dancers to the beat of a marching rhythm.
New ranchos were written every year and groups of dancers representing various districts of Rio performed them.