The State Capital is Salem, other major cities or towns include Portland, Eugene, Gresham, Beaverton, Hillsboro, Medford, Springfield, Bend and Corvallis. 
Centennial State, Colorado was named from the Spanish 'red' or 'ruddy.' The name was first applied to the Colorado River, which was apparently carrying reddish silt.
Colorado is located in the west-central United States (Rocky Mountains). Colorado is bordered by Wyoming (north), Nebraska (north & east), Kansas (east), Oklahoma (southeast), new Mexico (south), Arizona (southwest), Utah (west).
Tourism has become an important industry, with millions of visitors annually visiting Colorado’s scenic wonders and hunting, fishing, or attending rodeos, fairs, and other special events.
About a third of tourist revenues are spent on Colorado’s world famous ski slopes, such as Vail and Aspen.
Colorado ranks first among all states in ski-able acres and is home to nearly 50 natural hot springs.
If you like it hot, try Hortense Hot Springs located in the San Isabel National Forest. 
the Basket Makers, Native Americans, settled in Colorado’s arid mesa country before the beginning of the Christian era.
When Colorado’s first settlers arrived, they found Comanche, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Kowa on the Great Plains, with Utes inhabiting the mountains.
The plains tribes united to fight the settlers, but were defeated in the Indian Wars (1861-69) and the Buffalo War (1873-74).
Today, most Native Americans live on the Southern Ute reservation and in the Denver area.
The first European to enter what is now Colorado may have been the Spanish conquistador Francisco Vasquez de Coronado in the 16th century.
Spain claimed the area in 1706, although no Spanish settlements were established in Colorado.
Spain was secretly ceded the Louisiana Territory, which included much of Colorado, at the end of the French and Indian Wars in 1763.
The United States bought the area north of the Arkansas River and east of the Rocky Mountains in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803.
Central Colorado was acquired in 1845 with Texas’ admission as a state.
Western Colorado was obtained from Mexico (which had won its independence from Spain) by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, which ended the Mexican War in 1848. 
Parts of Colorado were included in the Kansas Territory. Miners formed the illegal Territory of Jefferson, which lasted until Colorado became a legal territory on February 28, 1861. On August 1, 1876 Colorado become the 38th state to unite under America.
Fur trappers and traders began working their trade in the Rocky Mountains.
Beaver fur was considered on of the most precious commodities on the continent.
During the decade of the 1830's both the supply and price of beaver skins declined, forcing traders to turn to hunting buffalo.
The Cheyenne, Arapaho, Comanche, and Kiowa were the most important plains tribes.
They were nomadic, hunting and making clothes from the skins of buffalo and deer, living in teepees, and depending on berries and roots for vegetables.
The discovery of gold in California in 1849 touched off a search for gold in other regions including the Rocky Mountains and accounted for the first extensive settlement of Colorado.
In July of 1858, William Green Russell, a Georgia miner, discovered several hundred dollars worth of gold at the mouth of Dry Creek in the present-day Denver suburb of Englewood.
Russell's find started the "Pike's Peak or Bust" gold rush of 1858-59. Historians estimate that approximately 50,000 people came to Colorado in search of gold in 1858-59.
The State Capital is Denver other major cities or towns include Colorado Springs, Aurora, Lakewood, Fort Collins, Pueblo, Arvada, Westminster, Boulder, Greeley.
The Land of Enchantment, New Mexico's upper region of the Rio Grande was called Nuevo Mexico as early as 1561; the name was anglicized and applied to lands ceded to the United States by Mexico after the Mexican War; Mexico is an Aztec word meaning "place of Mexitli," an Aztec god.
New Mexico is located in the Southwest and is bordered by Colorado (north), Oklahoma (northeast), Texas (east), Arizona (west), Utah (northwest).
The highest elevation is Wheeler Peak at 13,161 feet while the lowest elevation is Red Bluff Reservoir at 2,817 feet.
Tourism is also a chief source of revenue, with visitors attracted by the scenic wonders and such geological wonders as Carlsbad Caverns that inspired the nickname Land of Enchantment, along with New Mexico’s unique cultural attractions.
National Parks & Monuments include Carlsbad Caverns, Aztec Ruins, Bandelier, Capulin Volcano , El Malpais, El Morro, Gila Cliff Dwellings, Petroglyph, Salinas, White Sands.
The Apaches revolted against the Spanish in 1676, the Pueblo in 1680.
The later Apache Wars against the United States ended in 1886 with the surrender of Geronimo.
With over 16 million acres, the Navaho reservation is the nation’s largest.
Navahos are known as a pastoral people, grazing sheep, while the Pueblo, who live in pueblos scattered across the state, are largely farmers.
The 1st Europeans was Spanish explorer Cabeza de Vaca may have wandered across southern New Mexico between 1528 and 1536.
Spanish explorer Francisco Vásquez de Coronado traveled through the region while searching for gold in 1540-42.
The region was ruled by Spain until Mexico won its independence in 1821. Mexican then ruled the region until 1848.
The territory north of the Gila River (including much of present Arizona) was ceded to the U.S. in 1848, when the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the Mexican War.
Later, the U.S. wanted to build a railroad through the area south of the Gila River and purchased more land from Mexico in the Gadsden Purchase in 1853.
New Mexico was organized as a Territory on September 9, 1850 (In 1863, part of New Mexico Territory was separated to form Arizona Territory.)
New Mexico became the 47th State to Unite under America on January 6, 1912.
The newest source of income for many reservations in New Mexico is gambling.
Large casinos have been built on these lands and are becoming a significant contributor to the Native American economy.
Hispanics, who may be of any race but in New Mexico are primarily of Mexican descent, represented 42.1 percent of the state's population in 2000.
The exploration and conquest of present-day New Mexico by the Spanish and, later, the Mexicans, introduced a culture that continues to influence the character of New Mexico.
The Camino Real became a major trade route between parts of New Mexico and Mexico, introducing new foods and other cultural attributes to the area.
In some of the northern counties, Hispanics constitute a large majority of the population, and in some parts of New Mexico, Spanish is the primary language.
Early Hispanic settlers were granted lands first by Spain and later Mexico.
Many of these land grants, most of which are in northern New Mexico, are owned today by the descendants of these early settlers.
Anglo-Americans are the third component of the tri-cultural character of the state. Whites comprised 66.8 percent of the state's population in 2000.
The State Capital is Santa Fe, other major cities or towns include Albuquerque, Las Cruces, Roswell, Rio Rancho, Farmington, Clovis, Alamogordo, Hobbs & Carlsbad.
The Peace Garden State, Sioux, Roughrider State, North Dakota was named for the Dakota tribe; Dakota is a Sioux word meaning "friends" or "allies."
North Dakota is located in the Northern Great Plains and is borders: Bordered by the Canadian provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba on the north, Minnesota (east), South Dakota (south), and Montana (west).
The highest elevation is White Butte in Slope County at 3,506 feet while the lowest elevation is the Red River in Pembina County at 750 feet.
Tourism is the third most important industry, with many visitors drawn to the Badlands, the International Peace Garden, and reservoirs that offer recreational opportunities.
The first known farmers in the region were Native Americans of the Mandan tribe.
Seminomadic and nomadic tribes included the Cheyenne, Cree, Sioux, Assiniboin, Crow, and Ojibwa (Chippewa).
The explorers Lewis and Clark wintered with the Mandans during their expedition of 1804-06.
Gen. Alfred H. Sully joined Gen. Henry H. Sibley of Minnesota in campaigns against the Sioux in 1863-66. Led by Chief Inkpaduta, the Sioux were defeated in the battles of Big Mound (Kidder County, July 24-25, 1863), Dead Buffalo Lake (July 26, 1863), Stony Lake (Burleigh County, July 28, 1863), Whitestone Hill (Dickey County, September 3-5, 1863), and Killdeer Mountain (Dunn County, July 28-29, 1864).
A treaty was signed in 1868, but whites broke it in 1876, after gold was discovered on Native American land in the Black Hills.
The 1st Europeans was the French Canadians explorer Sieur de la Verendrye in 1738.
Lewis and Clark followed the Missouri River through North Dakota in 1804-06.
The North West Company and the Hudson's Bay Company established trading posts in the Red River valley at an early date.
The first settlements were made at Pembina in 1812 by Scottish and Irish families (the Red River Settlement).
Fort Union was established in 1828, serving as a base of operations for John Jacob Astor's American Fur Company, which controlled the region's trade.
In 1832, the paddlewheel steamer Yellowstone traveled up the Missouri River, enhancing trade and transportation.
The first permanent settlement was established in 1851 when another group settled at Pembina.
Free land was opened in 1863, and the Northern Pacific Railroad was chartered in 1864.
Railroads were constructed in the 1870s and 80s, luring thousands of European immigrants, principally Scandinavians, Germans, and Czechs. 
Acquired by U.S. Most of present North Dakota was acquired from France through the Louisiana Purchase in 1803.
The U.S. obtained northeastern North Dakota by treaty with Great Britain in 1818 and took possession of Pembina in 1823
With the Louisiana Purchase of 1803 the northwestern half of North Dakota became part of the United States.
The southeastern half was acquired from Great Britain in 1818 when the international line with Canada was fixed at the 49th parallel. 
Organized as Dakota Territory (which included lands that eventually became North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming) on March 2, 1861.
North Dakota became the 39th State to Unite under America on November 2, 1889.
The ancestors of many North Dakotans emigrated from Norway, Germany, Russia, and Canada.
In 2000 whites comprised the largest share of the population, representing 92.4 percent of the people.
Native Americans, many of whom were of the Ojibwa and Sioux peoples, were 4.9 percent of the population; blacks were 0.6 percent, Asians were 0.6 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity were 1.5 percent.
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 230. Hispanics, who may be of any race, were 1.2 percent of the population.
The State Capital is Bismarck while the 10 Largest Cities are Fargo, Bismarck, Grand Forks, Minot, Dickinson, Mandan, Jamestown, West Fargo, Williston, Wahpeton.
The Mount Rushmore State, Coyote, Blizzard State, South Dakota was named for the Dakota tribe; Dakota is a Sioux word meaning "friends" or "allies."
South Dakota is located in the Northern Great Plains an is bordered by North Dakota on the north, Minnesota & Iowa (east), Nebraska (south), and Wyoming & Montana (West).
The highest elevation is Harney Peak in Pennington County at 7,242 feet while the lowest elevation is Big Stone Lake in Roberts County at 966 feet.
Located far from the sea, South Dakota enjoys a continental climate, with hot summers and cold winters made more bitter by winds that sweep across the treeless plains.
South Dakota has long been known as the Blizzard State for its winter storms.
Rainfall is light, with the more arid areas in western South Dakota, as evidenced by the Badlands.
National Parks & Monuments include Badlands, Wind Cave, Jewel Cave, Mount Rushmore.
When Lewis and Clark passed through South Dakota in 1804-06, the region was inhabited by the agricultural Arikara and the nomadic Sioux (Dakota).
When whites violated an 1868 treaty by invading the sacred Black Hills in search of gold, war broke out.
Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse, and Gall were among the famous Sioux warriors who fought the U.S. Army in present South Dakota and neighboring areas.
However, their lot quickly worsened after that, and many Native Americans were killed or confined to reservations.
Hope renewed by a new "Ghost Dance" religion was dashed with Sitting Bull's death in 1890 and the subsequent Wounded Knee Massacre.
Tribal organization was weakened by the Dawes Act of 1887, and Native Americans have increasingly moved to the cities despite the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934.
Today, almost one third of the region west of the Missouri River belongs to Native Americans.
Most of them live on reservations such as Rosebud, Pine Ridge, Cheyenne River, and Standing Rock.
The last of the Plains Indians were the focus of the popular movie Dances With Wolves, which was filmed in South Dakota.
An enormous Crazy Horse Memorial is being sculpted in the Black Hills.
The 1st Europeans where Louis-Joseph and François Verendrye who explored the area in 1743 while searching for a route to the Pacific.