Habitat The city of Ahmedabad lies in the western Indian state of Gujarat and is part of the well developed hinterland region of the state.
The city itself stretches along the banks of the dry riverbed of the Sabarmati River.
The Sabarmati neatly bifurcates the city into two the old quarter on the eastern side with the business and industrial centre and the new city with more contemporary landscape of malls and arcades, high-rise buildings and cinema houses.
The city is full of architectural delights.
The older parts of the city are famous for their admixture of Indo Saracenic architecture.
The areas with a stronger Hindu influence have a labyrinth of by lanes called pols with exquisite carved wooden mansions and havelis.
The story so far after its creation in 1411, the city went through successive periods of glory and decline.
It flourished during the 16th and 17th centuries when it became one of the finest cities in India and then waned during the 18th century, when the Marathas challenged the might of the Mughal Empire.
It rose to prominence once again with the establishment of the textile industry and as Gandhi’s base for the nationalist movement for Indian Independence.
Ahmedabad became the base camp for the Indian freedom struggle with Gandhijis Sabarmati Ashram on the outskirts of the city, the core.
From here he guided India to freedom after the freedom movement this city of textiles often called the Manchester of the East became a national pilgrimage, a symbol of nonviolence and peace.
Though the capital of Gujarat was shifted from Ahmedabad to Gandhinagar, it is still the second largest industrial city in western India.
Over a period of time Ahmedabad has consolidated its position as a vibrant business and commercial city but is also famed as an academic centre with a number of premier institutions of higher studies located here.
 The Indian rupee is available in denominations of Rs 1, Rs 2, Rs 5, Rs 10, Rs 20, Rs 50, Rs 100 and Rs 500. 
 The most meager that your budget should get is US$20 per day of your stay on this amount, you’ll struggle with dormitory accommodation, look for cheap grub, and constantly try to figure out bus routes and timings but you’ll just about survive.
$40 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions.
It’ll fetch you three decent meals, a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides.
The bare minimum is just under $18 a day while a top end holiday could blow through the roof.
Believe the hype Ahmedabad is craft haven.
Banking in India has become quite easy now.
The sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation, which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too.
Multinational banks have a few branches in Ahmedabad; both they and Indian banks offer ATM facilities so any time money is yours for the asking.
Credit cards are accepted in the larger hotels; restaurants and commercial establishments in the cities but only cash will do in the smaller towns of the state.
Banking hours usually are 10 AM to 2 PM Monday to Friday and 10 AM to 12 Noon on Saturdays.
Bank holidays vary from region to region.
Major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row.
Major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops.
Changing money anywhere in India can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time.
Not all banks accept traveler’s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that serves your needs take advantage of it.
Changing money anywhere but at accredited bureau is illegal.
Ahmedabads international terminus and 45 star hotels have money changing bureaus.
International foreign exchange providers have several branches in the city.
Ahmedabad also has exchange bureaus where you can exchange money; most big branches of Indian banks will exchange money and cash traveler’s cheques.
Save up all exchange receipts (encashment certificates); these are required for visa extensions and other formalities, and when you want to convert rupees at the end of your trip.
Gujarat is an important centre of industry and commerce in the country.
All official transactions and meetings are held in Gandhinagar, the administrative capital while Ahmedabad and Surat are two important trading centers.
Ahmedabad is also the main centre of the huge textile industry.
With increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level, business protocol adheres to western standards.
The devastating earthquake that wreaked havoc across Gujarat on the 26 th of January 2001 destroyed a large proportion of the monuments and residential buildings in many parts of the Ahmedabad, while others suffered major structural damage.
Please check the current safety status when you plan a visit and bear in mind that many of the sights recommended here have been either destroyed or are out of bounds.
One of the most beautiful mosques in western India, the superbly proportioned Jumma Masjid  (1423 AD), is constructed in yellow sandstone and has 15 domes resting on approximately 250 columns of various heights.
Its excellent workmanship and grand scale make it truly outstanding.
The Sidi Sayyad Mosque is famous for its ten semicircular delicately carved stone windows; one of them shows the intricately entwined branches of a tree, depicting the Tree of Life.
The Sidi Bashir Mosque with its twin Jhulta minars (shaking minarets) which has been one of the city’s prime attractions for centuries.
With no parallel in the world, the minarets have been so designed that when one is shaken the other sways in sympathy.
The shaking minarets were damaged in the earthquake, but efforts are on to restore as much as is possible.
The Rani Sipri Masjid is a small, exquisitely designed mosque, while the Rani Rupmati Mosque named after the Sultans Hindu wife, has a dome that is slightly raised to permit light to come in around its base.
For a close look at old Ahmedabad, try the of the cityorganised by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) that takes you through the pols (byways and alleys) of the city, revealing crowded bazaars, havelis (manors) with exquisitely carved house fronts and lavish courtyards.
These tours are run daily from 8 am to 10 am starting at the Swaminarayan Temple, Kalupur.
Ahmedabads Museums are also noteworthy the Calico Museum of Textiles  has one of the worlds finest collections of textiles, antique tapestries, wall hangings, costumes and antique looms.
There are also the Lalbhai Dalpatbhai Institute of Indology, Museum of Miniatures, Shreyas Folk Museum, Utensils Museum and even a Kite Museum! The last one reflects the city’s fascination with kites.
Other attractions include the where Gandhijis cottage "Hridaykunj", has been preserved much as he left it over 50 years ago; the intricately carved, white marble ; the triple arched gateway ; the elaborately carved wooden ; the elegant architectural complex the 34sided and the (Step Well).
There is an interesting at the Sabarmati Ashram every evening.
 All visitors are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months.
Visa exemptions include Bhutanese and Nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months, Nationals from the Maldives, if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days (this includes any periods they may have spent in India up to 6 months prior to the visit in question), Transit passengers who have a follow on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport.
Special restrictions apply to Pakistani and Afghan nationals.
It’s always wise to check updated visa requirements prior to travel.
Around & About By Air Flights from Calcutta, Silchar and Guwahati connect Aizawl six days a week.
Aizawl airport is 6km away from the city and taxis and buses are available to ferry passengers to the city centre.
By Road Silchar to Aizawl (180 km) is a 68 hr journey on the National Highway 54 . Reasonably good roads link Guwahati (506 km), Imphal (374 km), Kohima (497 km), Shillong (430 km) and Agartala (443km) to Aizawl.
Taxis and hired cars with chauffeurs are readily available because the road network is the only effective way of communication between the neighbouring states and Mizoram By Train Mizoram does not have any rail links.
The nearest railhead, Silchar, in Assam, is 180 km away.
Silchar railway station is well connected to Mizoram along National Highway 54 by buses and hired taxis.
However, the most convenient railhead is Guwahati (Assam), which is very well connected to the rest of India.
From Guwahati to Aizawl, the capital of Mizoram, it is a 506 km drive and there are plenty of buses and taxis that cover the distance.
Inside the city, taxis are the only way to get around.
The rates are negotiable because they change frequently according to your nationality and clothes! November to March is the best time to visit with the mercury dropping to a comfortable range between 1°C and 29° Celsius.
The sky is a brilliant blue and the morning mists envelope the valleys between the hills presenting a visual treat.
There are a few clean and midrange and budget hotels scattered all over Aizawl.
They are fairly comfortable but it is advisable to carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers especially if you are looking at budget accommodation.
Even in summer, the evenings tend to be cool so do carry a light wrap with you.
Carry your own bed sheets and pillow covers if you are staying in a hotel to maintain your own standards of cleanliness.
Most hotels have in house restaurants, which serve Indian, Chinese, Thai and Continental cuisine.
For local food, try the simple stalls in Bara Bazaar or the dhabas in Zodin Square.
If you are looking for souvenirs, buy the Khumbeu ceremonial bamboo hat, made of waterproof wild Hnathial leaves.
Bara Bazaar is the main shopping centre of Aizawl, where all handicraft and handloom items are available.
The other shopping centers are New Market, Ritz Market, Bazar Bungkawn, Thakthing Bazar, Burma Lane and Solomon Cave.
Various bamboo items are also a good buy from Luangmual Handicrafts Centre.
Taxis are the only available option to explore Aizawls surrounding sights; you can rent one or share it with other people.
Feast your eyes on the beauty of nature and tribal lives of simple rural folk.
A great view of the hills of Myanmar is a memory that you’ll cherish always.
5km away is Ruantlang, a village where the traditional Mizo way of life has been preserved.
 For breathtaking views of blue hazed hills and vales, head to Phawangpui Vantawang is the spectacular waterfalls 137 km from Aizawl, among the highest in India at 230 m above sea level.
It is set in the midst of lush bamboo forests, near Thenzawl (142 km from Aizawl).
Thenzawl is a picturesque hill station and also worth a visit.
The Durtlang Hills, south of Aizawl, are high ridges punctuated by small villages and Christian convents.
This area is ideal for day hikes from Aizawl.
 Aizawl, the capital of Mizoram, is perched precariously on a sharp ridge and has the atmosphere of a Himalayan hill station.
Tourist infrastructure leaves much to be desired and there is very little to see in the city except interesting markets.
White churches dot the landscape leaving no doubt that the city is devoutly Christian.
Women wear a multihued wrap around skirt for a moment you may wonder if you are in a South American city! For detailed state information click on
 The most meager that your budget can get is $25 per day of your stay.
You’ll struggle with dormitory accommodation, looking for cheap grub, and trying to figure out bus routes and timings but you’ll just about survive.
$45 a day will see you sleep in decent clean beds and wake up to an attached bathroom for morning ablutions.
It’ll fetch you three decent meals, a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides.
This estimate has been made keeping in mind urban India.
The sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation, which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too.
In Mizoram your banking options will be far less than in the other states.
You’re likely to find only minor branches of government banks that do not offer facilities such as ATM and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling.
Also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize.