Kolhapur, I have heard, does not have much to offer a tourist.
Some interesting architecture; all designed by a chap named Charles Mant, who a Kolhapur maharaja hired in the late nineteenth century to change the look of the city.
A peculiar person, Mant committed suicide after constructing some two dozen masterpieces because he was terrified that one of buildings would collapse. 
The shrine is crowded throughout the year and the best time to visit is in the afternoon when the crowd thins out.
A visit to Kolhapur was not complete without a trip to this ordinary temple.
The darshan to the temple done, we headed out of the city towards the mountain temple of Jyotiba, another special pilgrimage spot.
The country roads are lined with bricks kilns. Industrious Maharashtrian women, very traditionally clad, toil side by side with the men folk at the kilns, ferrying bricks back and forth.
An occasional buffalo, with unusually long curved horns clip-clops along the road at a rapid pace, even as its owner huffs and puffs behind, desperately attempting to keep up.
Jyotiba temple is around 15 kilometers away from the city.
As the auto rickshaw wound its way up the steep mountain, pretty ashtambar trees and mango orchards come into view.
A cannon and a statue of Nandi (Shiva's mount) are located inside the temple complex.
"Because Jyotiba was formed by the amalgamation of the jyotis (souls) of three gods, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva who took the form of Jyotiba to destroy the evil Ratnasur.
The Panhala place has a colorful history and only a guide can give one the proper historical perspective of the fort.
Panhala was built in 1112 by Raja Bhoj from Madhya Pradesh whose domain extended over a very large area.
Panhala is the only fort in Maharashtra where you can roam within its walls in your vehicle.
During the times of Shivaji there were 600 people living in this fort. Today over 300 people resides here.
One can see 100 kms of countryside and the Sahyadri hills in each direction.
At the entrance of the fort is magnificent statue of Baji Prabhu Deshpande.
Shivaji won this fort from Ibrahim Adil Shah in 1659, but the Bijapuri army, lead by Siddhi Johar attacked the fort in 1660, with 50,000 men and formed a 50 kilometers ring around the fort and stayed put for a good six months.
Panhala-Vishalgad is a popular trekking route; it takes trekkers 24 hours to reach Vishalgad.
Panhala is 3,127 feet above sea level, but there is no scarcity of water around here.
The entire coastline of the western state of Maharashtra -- starting from the well known towns of Kihim and Alibag in the north to the town of Vengurla in the south where it merges with that of Goa.
Goa is dotted with golden beaches, picturesque creeks, solitary lighthouses, ancient forts, stunning cliffs and charming fishing hamlets, many of them still remain the way nature sculpted them. 
Untouched by the consumerism that has devoured most beaches near Bombay and Goa -- thereby driving it out of the reach of an average income earner -- these Maharashtra locales suffer from no such ruin.
They offer what the real travelers is looking for – vast open spaces, undisturbed solitude and the prospect to do something really different.
Many locals, having already sensed an opportunity, offer basic "extra-room-to-let" type of accommodation. 
In Maharashtra Marathi and Konkani is spoken, English is often understood.
The entire Indian coastline is situated between the Tropic of Cancer and the equator.
Maharashtra is one of the better administered states of India, the roads and public utilities are in good condition.
This is true even for the smaller roads that meander off from the main Bombay-Goa National Highway and transport you to offbeat locations.
Most of these smaller roads, especially those that run parallel to the coast, qualify as scenic drives because of the terrain that they traverse. 
The people are literate and well off, living in neat and clean villages they depend upon fishing for their livelihood and very little agriculture occurs here.
However, the southern portion, in and around the town of Ratnagiri, is famous for its Alphonso mangoes.
Maharashtra is proud of its history of having stood up, initially, against the Mughal invaders from the north and then later against the British Empire.
Chhatrapati Shivaji, a Maratha warrior, who harassed the invaders by occupying forts on hill-tops all over the region and adopting tactics that are now termed as guerrilla warfare, is a hero.
Though most of his forts are located inland and have now become weekend tourist attractions for the locals, quite a few of them are located on the coastline and – fortunately – are not tourist attractions.
Fish and other exotica from the Arabian Sea dominate the cuisine.
Most of the sleepy towns you encounter on these stretches only have 'eateries' or communal dining rooms, as opposed to restaurants.
Fresh tender coconut water is another way to quench your thirst.
You do not require permits to visit any of the coastal areas in Maharashtra and neither are these towns out of bounds to foreigners.
Listen to this long-standing myth about Matunga, the mini-Madras of Bombay.
Eighteen-year old Venkatachalam Subramaniam Iyer from Irinjalakuda in Kerala, armed with his SSC and shorthand and typewriting certificates, arrived in Dadar station, seeking a future in the city.
Bombay, or Mumbai as it is now called, is the commercial capital of India, a city of entrepreneurs, concrete towers, clubs and discos, cricket, Bollywood and more.
The word Mumbai is derived from Mumbadevi, the patron goddess of the Koli fisherfolk, the oldest inhabitants of Mumbai.
The name Mumbai, in its final form, dates back to the 18 the century, for Portuguese, the name Bombay is Good Bay ("Bom" "Bay" Good Bay).
Mumbai is a cluster of seven islands
In 1661, Charles II of England received the islands of Bombay as dowry when he married Princess Catherine of Braganza.
The British Government leased the islands to the East India Company, who developed it into a thriving trading port.
The promise of business opportunities and religious freedom drew people to Bombay from all over the country.
The city also became a hotbed of political activity during the struggle for independence, hosting the First Indian National Congress in 1885.
Today, Mumbai is the country's financial and cultural centre, it is also home to a thriving film industry.
Bombay is seen, to the teeming masses that flock there to live and work, as a place where opportunities abound.
Its inhabitants, an amalgam of great wealth and abject poverty, are swept into the endless maelstrom of activity that characterizes this Bombay city of dreams.
Being on the coast of the Arabian Sea, Mumbai's climate is largely influenced by the sea.
The climate of Bombay is moderate, with summers hot and winters pleasant. The monsoon lasts from June to September, and rainfalls heavy.
Mumbai is a great place for shopping, where you can find everything from all across the country.
The favorite for shoppers of all shapes, sexes and wallet sizes is textiles and ready-made garments, including export surplus apparel, which you can pick up at throwaway prices.
. Heera Panna Market is the place for ‘foreign goods’, clothes with designer labels at reasonable prices, electronics and household stuff, while for trendy boutiques you could check out Kemp’s Corner, Napean Sea Road, Warden Road and Linking Road near Bandra.
Colaba Causeway in downtown Mumbai is another great area for shopping for shoes, clothes, bags and everything you can think of and much that you can’t. 
The best time to visit Mumbai is between November and February it is advisable to avoid Mumbai during the monsoon months.
Chattrapati Shivaji Terminus, formerly known as Victoria Terminus (VT), this is one of the most imposing buildings in Mumbai.
At the entrance to the terminus is a large statue of Queen Victoria, the clock on tower is 3.19m in diameter.
Stone gargoyles, peacocks, monkeys, elephants and British lions are placed among the buttresses, domes, turrets, spires and stained glass windows; the Terminus looks more like a cathedral than a railway station.
The Chowpatty Beach overlooks a bay, and turns into a magical brightly lit funfair at night with vendors, pony rides, fortune tellers, performing monkeys, fishermen and families out for a stroll.
Ship lights twinkle in the distance, and Marine Drive, the city’s most famous boulevard, decorates the bay in a dramatic arc of streetlights christened the Queen’s Necklace.
Marine Drive extends from Nariman Point to Malabar Hill past the famous Chowpatty beach, and is built on land reclaimed from Back Bay along the Arabian Sea. 
The Gateway of India was built in 1924 to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary to India.
Built in the 16th century Gujarati style, the monument stood testament to British supremacy. Ironically, it was from here that the last British troops left the country after independence.
Haji Ali Mosque is located at the end of a long causeway protruding into the Arabian Sea.
The white mosque is the tomb of Saint Haji Ali, a wealthy Muslim who renounced the world and proceeded to Mecca.
The Hanging Gardens or Ferozshah Mehta Gardens were laid in 1881 on top of a reservoir on Malabar Hill; the garden provides a spectacular view of the city.
High Court’s building, designed in the English Gothic Style, was built in 1878; the main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surmounted by statues representing Justice and Mercy.
Better known as Flora Fountain after the beautiful stone fountain at its centre, Hutatma Chowk is the established business centre of Mumbai.
The Fountain was erected in 1869 in honour of Sir Bartle Frere, Governor of Bombay, who was responsible for shaping much of Bombay.
The Jain Temple, built in white marble, is dedicated to Adinath, the first apostle of the Jains.
The temple is decorated with paintings depicting incidents from the life of the Tirthankaras, the first floor of the temple is particularly dedicated to Parasnath.
Kala Ghoda (Black Horse) got its name from the imposing statue of King Edward VII, seated astride a black horse, which rested there.
The Kala Ghoda area is home to some of the city's most beautiful buildings - The Elphinstone College, the David Sassoon Library, the Army Navy Building and the once-celebrated Watson Hotel.
In an attempt to turn the area into an art district, city conservationists organized the Kalaghoda Fair, an open air craft bazaar, and cultural arena.
Near Kalbadevi are the Jama Masjid and the Mumbadevi temple, dedicated to the patron Goddess of Mumbai's original inhabitants.
North of the Crawford market is a predominantly Muslim area, dotted with Chawls (dwelling clusters), and home to some of the busiest and most colorful bazaars in Mumbai.
Mahatma Gandhi's residence in Bombay between 1917-34 has been converted into a museum Mani Bhavan (Gandhi Memorial), which displays pictures and books related to his life.
Also known as Netaji Subhas Chandra Marg, Marine Drive features a bustling waterfront promenade.
Marine Drive is built on land reclaimed along the Arabian coast, and runs from Nariman point to the foot of Malabar Hill, sunsets here are particularly beautiful.
The National Gallery of Modern art in Mumbai exhibits the work of prominent contemporary Indian artists.
The National Gallery is housed in the building that was formerly Sir Cowasji Jehangir Public Hall.
8 kilometers from the centre of the city is the Nehru Planetarium, it shows glimpses into the mysteries and wonders of outer space, and is particularly entertaining for children.
Prince of Wales Museum which opened in 1923 has an impressive collection of artifacts from places such as Elephanta Island, Jogeshwari Caves, and the Indus valley.
In Prince of Wales Museum there is a large collection of terra-cotta figurines, ivory carvings, statues, and miniatures.
Taraporewala Aquarium was opened in 1951 and has an interesting collection of marine and fresh water specimens.
Matheran is quaint hillside retreat was discovered in 1850 and is the nearest hill station from Mumbai, and provides a welcome respite from the heat and crowds of the city.
Lonavla and Khandala are twin resorts just over 100 kms from the rat race of Mumbai.
The Lonavla and Khandala towns are perched high on the Western Ghats, and popular tourist destinations.
Both towns are famous for their delicious chikki (molasses candy) and chocolate fudge.
Sanjay Gandhi National Park, previously known as the Borivali National Park, this protected forest area is on the northern outskirts of Mumbai.
The Lion Safari is popular attraction; however, the small population of animals, which includes a few tigers and panthers, faces extinction due to urban encroachment.
Bassein fortified city, built by the Portuguese, separates greater Mumbai from the Indian mainland.
The city of Bassein was at its architectural best in 1534, with one cathedral, five convents and 13 churches.
The Elephanta island is known as Gharapuri (fortress city).
Elephanta island, a well known tourist spot is accessible by boat from the Gateway of India.