Known as the mother river by all the Chinese people, the 5464-kilometer (about 3395 miles) Yellow River is the second longest river in China after the Yangtze River .
The headwaters of this mighty Yellow River lie in Kunlun Mountains in northwestern Qinghai Province.
Yellow River runs through nine provinces and autonomous regions on its way to the Bohai Sea.
It is not exaggerating to say that Yellow River is a melting port, because there are more than 30 branches and countless streams feeding it through its course.
The vigorous upper reaches of the Yellow River starts in Qinghai Province to Hekouzhen in Inner Mongolia.
This magnificent Yellow River flows quietly, like a shy girl in this section, irrigating the farmlands and nurturing the people.
Its middle reaches ends at Taohuayu in Zhengzhou City, Henan Province and here the Yellow River splits the Loess Plateau in half, forming the longest continuous gorge in the whole drainage area of the river.
The Yellow River's lower reaches ends in a delta on the Bohai Sea.
It is agreed upon by almost all the Chinese people that the Yellow River is the cradle of Chinese civilization, the spiritual home of the Chinese people.
It is the waters of the Yellow River and its spirit that nurture the whole Chinese nation.
For thousands of years, the Yellow River has been admiring by literary giants, artists, as well as by the common people
The Yellow River is not just several letters, nor is it just the name of a yellow-ochre-colored river.
Yellow River bears special significance: the symbol of the Chinese nation, the spirit of the Chinese people and more importantly, civilization itself.
Neolithic (7,000 BC-3,700 BC), Bronze (3,700 BC-2,700 BC) and Iron Age Sites (770 BC), and so on can be found in the Yellow River's drainage basin, which had been the center of ancient Chinese culture since the Azilian (Middle Stone Age).
The story of three cultural heroes: Suiren-shi who taught the Chinese to make fire by drilling wood, Fu Hsi who was the inventor of hunting, trapping and fishing and Shennong-shi who invented agriculture, was spread, these three legendary individuals that began the development of civilization in the Yellow River basin.
Many ancient Chinese emperors, like Emperor Qin Shi Huang , Genghis khan (1162-1227, grandfather of Kublai Khan who is the first emperor of the Yuan Dynasty (1271-1368)) pushed the Yellow River civilization to a wholly new level of refinement, grace and spirituality which drew the attention of the whole world.
Rich cultural relics, history and gorgeous natural sceneries make the Yellow River a fine place to visit.
Along the Yellow River, there are dozens of worthwhile attractions. They are stretching arms and waiting for your visiting.
Zhouzhuang, one of the most famous water townships in China, situated in Kunshan City which is only 30 kilometers (18 miles) southeast of Suzhou.
It is noted for Zhouzhuang’s profound cultural background, the well preserved ancient residential houses, the elegant watery views and the strong local colored traditions and customs
In the Spring and Autumn Period (770 - 476 BC), Zhouzhuang was a part of the fief Yaocheng and called Zhenfengli.
After being donated to Full Fortune (Quanfu) Temple by Zhou Digong, a very devout Buddhist, in 1086 during the Northern Song Dynasty (960 - 1127), Zhouzhuang got its present name as a memorial of the donor.
In an area of half a square kilometer (124 acres), 60 percent of the Zhouzhuang's structures were built during the Ming and Qing Dynasties, which is from 1368 to 1911.
Taking the most convenient form of transport in Zhouzhuang, a gondola, we will present some of the breathtaking sights one by one.
Zhouzhuang is surrounded and divided by lakes and rivers, 14 stone bridges cross the rivers, showing distinctive views of the water-town
Twin Bridges which comprise Shide Bridge and Yongan Bridge are the most famous and is considered the symbol of Zhouzhuang.
Built in Wanli era (1573 - 1619) of the Ming Dynasty, Twin Bridges is in the northeast of the town.
Shide Bridge is east-west and has a round arch, while Yongan Bridge is north-south and the bridge arch is square.
Crossing the two crisscross rivers (Yinzi Creek and Nabeishi River) and connecting at the middle, Twin Bridges look like a Chinese old-style Chinese key.
In 1984, 38 canvases of the notable painter, Chen Yifei, were exhibited in a New York gallery of Armand Hammer, chairman of Occidental Petroleum Corporation.
'Memory of Hometown' which depicts Twin Bridges was one of the items on display and has gained the world's attention for Zhouzhuang.
The painting of Twin Brigdge was chosen to be the first-day cover of the United Nations' postage stamp in 1985.
Located at the eastern end of Zhongshi Jie, Fuan Bridge was built in 1355 during the Yuan Dynasty.
The unique trait of the Fuan is the consummate combination of the single-arch bridge and the bridge towers which have , are used as tearooms, restaurants and stores, and are good places to appreciate the views while taking a rest.
Built in 1742 and located at the southeast side of Fuan Bridge, Shen House was the private property of the descendant of Shen Wansan, the first millionaire of Jiangnan (South of Yangtze River) in the early Qing Dynasty.
. The whole architectural complex is of the Qing's style and occupies an area of more than 2,000 square meters (half an acre).
Over 100 rooms are divided into three sections and each one is connected by arcades and aisles.
The first is the water gate and the wharf, where Shen's family moored boats and washed clothes.
Bricky gate tower carved with lively and ingenious figures which tell the historic stories or show the good wishes, make it a rare artwork.
Tea room and main hall are places for serving guests, and the furnishings in here are all very elegant.
The last section is the two-storied dwelling which consists of several buildings which are quite different from the main hall, more comfortable and refined in pattern and atmosphere.
The painted sculpture of legendary Shen Wansan is in Datang Tower; cultural relics including ancient folk instruments are exhibited in Xiaotang Tower and Back Hall.
Zhang House: Built by Xu's family in the Zhengtong era (1436 - 1449) of the Ming Dynasty and bought by Zhang's family in the early Qing Dynasty.
Located to the south of the Twin Bridges, Zhang House has more than 70 rooms and takes up about 1,800 square meters (less than half an acre).
With Ruojing River flowing through, Zhang House is a dapper and graceful residential house; has a tranquil courtyard and pond. Deep halls all represent the life of the quondam owner.
Once called the De's Tavern, Milou Tower perches next to Zhenfeng Bridge which is at the southwest corner of Zhouzhuang
Milou Tower is famous for being a rallying place of the literators in old times.
Numerous poets, songs and stories about Milou Tower are wide spread and make it more charming.
Standing on Zhongshi Street which is opposite to Puqing Bridge, Chengxu Taoist Temple was built during 1086 - 1093 of the Song Dynasty and also known as Sanctity Hall (Shengtang Hall).
After several periods of expansion, it is one of the most famous Taoist temples in Wuzhong Region.
In an area of 1,500 square meters (1,800 square yards), simple but majestic Shengdi and Doumu halls, Yuhuang, Wenchang and Shengdi pavilions are really elaborate works and masterpieces of Taoist architctures.
The preceding sight-seeing sites are just a little part of the pretty attractions of Zhouzhuang.
Besides the historic sights, the local folklore, traditions and legends of this water township, such as the dragon boat race, the granny tea or the Wansan home-style banquet which are formed from the immemorial civilization and history are also the indispensable elements for an unforgettable tour.
Thailand is fortunate in its prime location for tourism in terms of such natural attractions as beaches and mountains, cultural and historical sites which reflect the glories of Thai civilization, and a sophisticated infrastructure, allowing visitors easy access to all these treasures.  
The government's policy on tourism for the past years has been gearing towards more and more sustainable tourism development with emphasis on community participation, safety of tourists and non-exploitation.
The term “eco-tourism” has been widely used to describe a form of tourism in natural areas that is based on the knowledge about and responsibility towards the ecological system of the area.
At present, the number of real eco-tourism visitors is still minimal. Mostly, those tourists are included in other types of tourism such as nature-based tourism, agro-tourism, cultural and historical tourism and health tourism.
Most of echo tourism areas are in natural parks and specific historical-cultural areas.
The national parks system in Thailand was previously cited its growing importance to the eco-tourism industry.
Most parks of Thailand easily accessible by road, there exists excellent potential to expand the number of visitors who use them.
In the case of the Maekong River, the nature-based tourism potential particularly applies to Northeast Thailand, an area that the TAT has identified as a priority for tourism development.
In the case of the Maekong River, the nature-based tourism potential particularly applies to Northeast Thailand, an area that the TAT has identified as a priority for tourism development.
As the Mekong region increases in its exposure and popularity, these parks will experience an increased number of visitors in search of quality eco-tours.
One marine eco-tourism, the last 30 years saw the country establishing 18 marine national parks as well as more than 70 terrestrial ones. Many of the activities available on and around Thailand's crystal seas are environmentally sound.
Sea canoeing, windsurfing biking, walking, swimming, snorkeling and sailing are, when practiced as they should be, perfectly respectful of nature. Diving, the most popular water sport in Thailand can be just as green.
Thailand has a great opportunity to promote eco-tourism, especially when compared to other countries in the Asia region.
The kingdom enjoys such benefits as easy access, sophisticated infrastructure and myriad tourist attractions and activities.
Sea canoeing is the eco-tourist activity par excellence, and proves the benefit of the natural approach. The quiet of this mode of tourism heightens your sense of awareness, and wildlife is not scared by your silent approach.
Echo Tourism is also an exciting physical challenge providing an aerobic workout and tones and develops your arms, shoulders and chest.
Some of the most spectacular sites for sea canoeing are around Krabi and the island of Phuket and Phang-nga Bay.
Sea Cone Thailand, based in Phuket, was the pioneering eco-tour company that launched thousands of travellers on their sea adventures.
Sea canoeing adventures from Phuket take small groups of two passengers on inflatable kayaks, accompanied by a support boat carrying food and equipment.
Threeday excursions include instruction in kayak management, camping and barbecue dinners and the exploration of eight islands, including Ko Chong Lat and its Blue Room, a three chamber stalactite grotto.
On the southeastern seaboard near the Cambodian border, Ko Chang National Park in Trat Province has more than 50 pristine islands ready to be ex-plored by sea canoe.
Ko Kra has some of the best coral in Thailand, but no less spectacular are the golden sands of KO Mak and the bays of Ko Ngarm.
Although sea canoes are easy to handle and all safety equipment is provided, it is best to get instruction first.
Sea canoe expeditions are running all year round, although the rains from June to October can inhibit operations.
Windsurfing has become one of Thailand’s most popular water sports in the last two decades, and it is practiced all over Thailand’s beaches
Wind-surfing is not only exhilarating and an excellent way to get fit, it is also quiet, non-polluting and environmentally friendly It is a sport that enquires dexterity and coordination and also strength. 
You can learn to windsurf on all major beaches in Phuket, Samui, Pattaya and Krabi, as well as on islands of Ko Tao and Ko Chang.
You have mastered the basics; you’ll find boards and sails available everywhere, While you need wind to windsurf, you can get too much of a good thing.
Don’t go out to sea if the weather is threatening to turn stormy for windsurfing.
You should wear a life jacket at all times and beware of boats and swimmers on crowded stretches of water, especially when you are still learning how to handle your board and sail.
It is easy to forget about the sun with the wind on your face, but it is especially strong when reflecting off the water all around you, so wear protective sunblock.
Jet-skiing has been taken up with enthusiasm all over Thailand with jet-skis available for hire at all major beaches in Thailand-Samui.
Phuket, Pattaya, Samet and Krabi. Despite the speed, jet-skiing in Thailand is a safe sport.
If you keep your head and watch out for other sea traffic, especially swimmers and snorkellers, Rocks are usually markes, but take care, especially at low tide. 
When you are roaring around the bays, it’s easy to forget that you’re in the full force of the sun, so protect yourself beforehand.
One of the best ways to appreciate the grandeur and significance of Thailand’s history is to absorb the atmosphere of the ruins and monuments of past Thai civilisations. 
Visitors can stroll into a thousand years of history at the historical parks of Sukhothai, Lop Buri, Si Satchanalai and Ayutthaya. Out of the historical parks, Phra Pathom Chedi in Nakhon Pathom is an awe-inspiring sight: The tallest Buddhist monument in the world and also where Buddhism was first taught in this Buddhist country.
One can enjoy the culture just by walking down the street of Chiang Mai, Here at Wat Pa Pao in Chang Phuak (White Elephant) District, for example, are gorgeous examples of Burmese and Shan temple architecture.
short walk southest of the old town are the weather – worn earthen ramparts erected by Chao Kavila, the warrior who in 1776 drove the Burmese out and restored the city to its former glory.
Westward is Doi Suthep, a mountain named after the hermit whose modest cave is just above Wat Phar That Doi Suthep.
There are many temples in Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Lamphun, Lampang, Mae Hong Son and Nan where visitors can enjoy the lean about the northern history and architecture.
History lovers may prefer to wander among the ruins of the mighty Khmer empire of the 11th-12th centuries.
The best known is Prasat Hin PhiMai, just outside Nakhon Ratchasima, the largest sandstone sanctuary in Thailand of classic Khmer design.
The most spectacular monument is Prasat Phanom Rung in Buri Ram, a towering structure seated on top of an extinct volcano, which took over 17 years to restore.
Southern Isan is dotted with khmer shrines in various states of repair.
A must – visit is Phar Borom That Chaiya in which authentic Srivijaya architecture is preserved in perfect condition, or Wat Phra Kaeo ans Wat Hua Wiang also in Surat Thani Province Srivijaya was a group of small communities scattered along the Malay Peninsula from Sumatra in Malaysia to the southern part of Thailand from the 7th to the 13th century.
Communities shared common cultural ground in terms of Buddhism, trading, governance, and architecture in Thailand.