Originally a land of warriors, Manipur has several monuments in the memory of those who laid down their lives to shield the state from incursions. 
The most famous of these is the Kangla Fort in Imphal, which contains the remains of Bir Tikendrajit, Manipur’s most celebrated martyr. 
Manipuris, simple and soft-spoken, make very good hosts. Their hospitality will make you fall in love with Manipur. 
A land of mirth and merriment, rarely a month passes without a festival or two. 
The various ethnic tribes in the hilly areas have colourful festivals such as Lui-Ngai-Ni and Kut. 
The Manipuri dance is the culture symbol of the state. And it is indeed difficult to find a Manipuri who cannot sing or dance.
The same streak of creativity is noticeable in the beautiful handicrafts Manipur make. Such as the intricate bamboo products or the bright shawls and phaneks (sarong). 
There’s all this much more. Manipur is beckoning you to come and explore. You will never forget this vacation. 
Tourist bungalows, the quaint charm of Churachandpur are enhanced by the presence of the Kuki tribals. The tourist bungalows, with its old-world looks, will not spoil you with luxury at all.  
Hotel Imphal,  ITDC hotel is a spot ofLuxury in the otherwise ‘simple’ Imphal.Situated north of the Old Palace. Hotel Imphal has several wings of spacious rooms overlooking a meticulously planned lawn.
The hotel, conveniently located, also serves authentic Manipuri cuisine. The Manipuri Tourism Office is also based here. 
Tourist bungalows, located on a hilltop in Sendra Island, at the heart of Keibul Lamjao National Park, this tourist bungalows provides a bird’s eye view of the Loktak lake. Don’t look for luxury; what you get here is basic yet comfortable accommodation. 
Sing-Ju, this strange concoction is a popular snack in Manipur. 
Sing-ju is made of ngari (fermented fish), cabbage. Raw papaya. Banana flower. Umorok (hot chilly), sesame seeds, and chick-peas. In some cases, you will find a few more vegetables in the list of ingredients.  
It is best to buy Sing-ju from are the women, both old and young, selling it in the lanes of Imphal. 
Sing-ju hot and spicy and is eaten after lunch or in the evening. 
No Manipuri dish is complete without a pinch of fermented/ dry fish, Iromba. 
Iromba is prepared by boiling vegetables (potatoes, onions, green herbs or ferns), ngari and red hot chillies. 
Iromba is best eaten with steamed rice while it’s fresh. 
The two variations of Iromba are yongchak and soibum, the latter made of bamboo shoot. Green chillies and Ngari. Try this in any of the chak hotels (local dhabas) in the whole of Manipur.
Considered the ‘king of Manipuri dishes’, Utti is a must-have on all occasions-festival, marriages etc. 
It is prepared in two styles. The basic ingredient, peanuts, is either cooked with tender green vegetables of bamboo shoots. Mild and easy on your stomach, this wholesome food can be found at most eateries and marketplaces in the state.
It is best to go to a local restaurant for a ‘handful’ of Utti. 
Chakem is more popular in the hilly regions. 
Chakem has both vegetarian and non vegetarian avatars. 
The tastier version, vouch locals, is the one prepared by boiling rice and pork/ beef with spices made at home.
The end of result is a plate of delectable chakem, a whole meal in itself. 
For a tasty of authentic chakem, you have to find a host in one of the families in the hill stations.
Ima Keithal in Imphal is the largest market in Asia run by women.
Apart from anarray of handicrafts, Ima Keithal sells a stunning range of pickles. 
The hawai-zar (fermented soyabean) and a packet of sunflower seeds are must-buys.
The hustle-bustle of the market, coupled with the loud chattering of 3,000 women, is an experience worth having. 
Their bright coloured and bold patterns may lead a layperson to believe that Manipuri shawls are from Maxico or Peru. 
The designs, however, are, typical to this hill state.
A good place to buy these fashionable yet ethnic shawls is the Manipur Handloom and Handicrafts Department Corporation in Paona Bazaar, Imphal.
There is a beauty everywhere you look in Maghalaya. 
In the valleys, you’ll find plain areas with vast green paddy fields and lush forests of evergreen and mixed deciduous trees.
In the hilly areas there are rolling tea gardens, areca nut plantations. 
Waterfalls thrive in the state, fed continually by the formidable monsoons.
There are a rich variety of rare fauna and flora in Meghalaya, which delight visitors. 
Many varieties of orchid abound here, in a range of stunning colours. 
The insectivorous pitcher plant is very rare, and the clouded leopard, golden cat, slow loris and peacock pheasant are only a few out of the many species of fauna found in the state.
Heavan for the nature lover, Meghalaya has the Balpakram National Park, Nongkhyllem Bird Sanctuary, Siju Bird Sanctuary and Nokrek Biosphere Reserve to experience nature in all its glory. 
You can go trekking in rugged hills and valleys; explore beautiful limestone caves and enchanting landscapes. 
What’s more, there is a strong and vibrant tribal culture here. 
The Khasis, Jantias and Garos are the main tribes of Meghalaya and each has its own culture, language, customs and festivals. 
Content in their lifestyles and traditions, the people of Meghalaya will be happy to welcome you into their home.
If you want to get away from the bustle of the town and choose tranquil nature instead, Orchid Lake Resort, Umian, the place for you. 
Designed by renowed architect Charles Correa, this resort offers both accommodation and water sport facilities.
It is set in peaceful green surroundings, and the Lam Nehru Park, known for its aviary and orchid centre, is right next door. 
Treat yourself to a luxurious stay at the Tripura Castle, known for being the first heritage hotel in the north east. 
The hotel is situated over 9 acres of sprawling forests, and each room has wood interiors. A brass fireplace and Art Deco furniture. 
Along with all the usual five-star amenities, the place is also known for its Therapy Centre, which offers holistic and indigenous herbal treatments. 
For the budget traveler, the Maghalaya Tourism-run Hotel Pinwood is a great choice. 
Wake up in the morning to the sound of gentle temple bells next door and take a short walk down the street to find yourself in the midst of a bustling bazaar that sells just about everything. You can also take a bus from here for pre-arranges visits to tourist circuit, if you are so inclined 
As its name suggests, the Centre Point Hotel lies in the heart of down, and is one of the best hotels on offer here. It has 25 rooms and suites, and a very popular restaurant and bakery. 
The rooftop discotheque and upmarket clientele make it one of Shillong’s biggest hot spouts. 
Feel like a spot of tea, you’ll love the sweetmeat basket that is brought along with evening tea at little wayside eateries. 
The goodies come in a wicker basket, and include mouth-watering Jalebis, cakes, sweet buns, and sweets made of pounded rice. 
The perfect accompaniments to a hot cuppa. 
A traditional Meghalaya dish prepared with fermeted soya and pork, Turrmbai is a local favorite.
People flock to the Lewduh market early in the morning to grab the best pork cuts for the Turumbai. 
You should be warned, or happily informed if you’re a lover of red meat, the nobody really cares much for chicken or mutton in Meghalaya; it’s all about beef and fork.
When in Tura, try the typical Garo fare fare on offer: Kappa, made from dried fish and pork, beef and liver, is a meat-lover’s delight.
Brenga, which is rice, meat and spices cooked in bamboo sticks, and Watepa, which is rice and meat cooked in banana leaf, are both given distinctive taste by the way they are cooked. 
Shillong is not known for its nightlife, but things do get rocking at Cloud 9, a rooftop discotheque, and The Platinun, Polo Towers, which comes alive on Saturday nights. 
People flock here not just for great music, but also for well-priced inebriation. Two of the best places to let your hair down on any day of the week.
During the early mosoon, go to the local market at Jowai to brows through a mind-boggling variety of mushrooms, the most popular of which is the Tit Tung. 
This fermented mushroom is usually fried and cooked with black sesame seeds and, you’ve guessed it, pork. 
Such is the popularity of the humble betal leaf that everyone not just chews on it all the time, but also carry it wherever they go.
The day begins and ends with a betal leaf within which is wrapped bits of lime, catechu, cardamom, and a slice of coconut. Get into the spirit of things and chew your own. 
Sit around a bonfire; listen to the local Elvis belting out the blues, and share cheese and munchies while sipping homemade wine.
Sound perfect? If you’re in Shillong around Christmas, check out the dates for the Wine Festival, first held in 2004. 
And we’re back to pork! All of Meghalaya seems to sublsist on the meat, which is called dohsniang in the local language. 
Portions can be really small, so if you are eating at a Khasi restaurant, remember to order two plates for a hearty meal. 
The Jaintias cook their pork in black sesame-try it, it has a very distinctive taste. 
Kong Heh’s Jodoh Stall near the Press Club in Shillong is a small shack where you’ll find authentic local cuisine.
Highly recommended for those who don’t mind roughing it a bit. 
Also drop in to Cloud 9 for fermented pork with bamboo shoots, a dish that is a great blend of north-eastern and South-Asian cuisine. 
You can not leave Meghalaya without tasting Genasi Na Kam: dried fish cooked with green beans and chillies. 
Half a teaspoon of ash water (karchi) is added for the special taste that lovers of this dish swear by. 
It is easily available and recommended highly. 
Mylliem is full of Khasi dhabas famed for their rugged cuisine. 
Try Doklai if you’re brave; it is pork brain, hot chillies and onions, all mixed and boiled. Jado and Domas, made of rice and meal with vegetables, are perfect for the less adventurous. 
As you surely know by now, Meghalayans eat a lot of pork and rice and this dish is a rather deadly combination of both-rice cooked in pig’s fat with ginger, onions and turmeric. 
It packs quite a punch, but is absolutely yummy and worth braving, if you have the stomach for it. 
You’ll find it in any restaurant in Meghalaya serving traditional dishes. 
Death to mass-production! Every Khasi lock is hand-smithed, with each key specific to its own lock, and are famous for their unique locking mechanism. 
Khasi are great blacksmiths, and also known for their foldable kitchen knives, which are razor-sharp, very handy, and simply last forever. 
You won’t need to carry around a Swiss Army knife when you have one of these. 
The red Naga shawl is almost synonymous with the north-east. 
The Meghalayans hand-weave very light shawls in pastel colours with dark or bright checks. 
Shawl are extremely warm and woman have a way of draping them that is quite different from the way they are worn in the North. Wear them your own way.  
Go anywhere in Meghalaya and you will find the humble bamboo turned into various things-from beer mugs to water jugs, spoons to trays to pen stands. Haggle a little, but do buy. 
Traipse through Jail Road, Bazaar for everything from orchids to mounted butterflies. 
Start shopping for curios and souvenirs at Purabshree, Jail Road and then head straight to Bara Bazaar. 
Stop here for handicrafts in emporia like Meghaloom, Khadi Emporium and Tantuja, or pick up Tibetan wares at Glory’s Plaza. 
Other must buys include luscious pineapples, orange and black mushrooms. 
One of the largest open air markets in the country, Lewduh in Shillong is quite an amazing experience for even the most reluctant of shoppers.  
From a variety of nuts to the best meat cuts, you will find everything here.