Home of the British Government, the building is actually called the Palace of Westminster, but is more commonly known as the Houses of Parliament, due to the two parts of government that live here. 
These are the elected House of Commons and the House of Lords, made up of hereditary and life peers.
The Commons introduces new legislation but the Lords acts as a kind of quality control department and debates the issues again, before they are made law.
The British Sovereign today plays a mainly ceremonial role in the running of the country.
This includes the ceremony of the state opening of Parliament.
The oldest part of the Palace of Westminster is Westminster Hall, dating back to the year 1097.
When Daniel Defoe visited Westminster Hall during his tour of 1724, he said it resembled a barn. 
 A fire in 1834 destroyed all but Westminster Hall and the Jewel Tower across the road, so the rest of the present building is surprisingly new, having been built in the period 1840-1860 to a mock-Gothic design.
Strangely, the hall tends to be ignored, except for on state occasions.
Visitors to the public gallery do pass through the end of the hall on their way in through the airport style security checks.
A century ago in Dickens' day, the hall was a more focal point.
When Parliament is sitting a light is turned on above the Clock Tower that houses Big Ben, and a flag is flown from Victoria Tower (the tall tower at the opposite end from Big Ben's Clock Tower).
 On the corner near Parliament Square a beacon flashes and a bell rings when a Member of Parliament wants a taxicab. 
Visitors are welcome in both the Lords' and Commons' public galleries when the houses are sitting.
The queue for the commons can be quite large during the afternoon but the house sits until around 10pm and during the evening there is often no need to queue.
Arrangements must be made in advance to tour around the rest of the Palace, if you live in the UK, otherwise arrangements can be made through your embassy.
The original plans for the Houses of Parliament can be seen at Sir John Sloane's Museum.
At the road junction next to the Houses of Parliament is Parliament Square.
This small area of grass is an oasis in a sea of traffic.
There are now plans to pedestrianism the area around the square and also Whitehall and Trafalgar Square, but at the moment the traffic deters many people from reaching the square.
Those who do will find statues honoring a number of past British Prime Ministers.
There is also one of Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865), the 16th President of the USA. 
Opposite 'The House' is a green and grassy area where news crews conduct interviews with politicians.
This is known variously as 'Abingdon Green', 'College Green' and 'St Stephen's Green'.
The official line though, from the Head of Public Information at the Palace of Westminster, is that it's just called 'The Green'.
Similarly, the Clock Tower that houses Big Ben, the giant 13.5ton bell that strikes the hour, is simply called 'The Clock Tower'!  The Public Galleries are open when the houses are sitting.
The House of Lords is in recess from 28th July 2000, until 27th September 2000.
Tours of the rest of the building can be arranged through local MPs and embassies.
You can find information about tours of the Houses of Parliament here.
A chic paradise for shoppers and royal watchers, Kensington is home to a wealth of stores from high street clothes outlets to the fascinating antiques shops of Kensington Church Street.
Turn right out of High Street Kensington tube station and a walk of just a few hundred yards will bring you to the gates of Kensington Palace.
This was home to the late Diana Princess of Wales and is the current residence of The Queen's sister, Princess Margaret.
Beyond the palace lie the delightful Kensington Gardens - the perfect setting for a picnic! 
Alternatively, stroll along the many beautiful mews or grand residential streets - find the very house where Agatha Christie penned some of her finest mysteries!  South Kensington is best visited from the tube station of the same name.
Here you will find a collection of the world's finest museums - all virtually next to each other! You'll need more than a day to see them all, so choose carefully.
The Victoria & Albert Museum has around 7 miles of corridors and houses a fascinating mix of collections from dresses to church pulpits! 
A little further down Cromwell Road, the Natural History Museum is one of the grandest buildings in London and will occupy anyone with even the vaguest interest in the natural world.
Adjacent to this stands the Science Museum: a Pandora's Box of levers, switches, buttons and wizardry.
It also has a superb collection of cars, trains, planes, boats, and even working steam engines!  Famous residents of Kensington have included William Makepeace Thackeray (author of Vanity Fair), Robert Baden-Powell (founder of the Scout Movement), Bela Bartok, Sir Winston Churchill, T.S.
Gilbert, Henry James, Mohammed Ali Jinnah (the founder of Pakistan) Jawaharlal Nehru (the first Prime Minister of India) and the Earl and Countess of Bradford.
 Nearest Underground stops:  Kensington High Street, South Kensington, Gloucester Road  
No visit to London would be complete without a visit to the Food Hall of Harrods n recognized as the finest food hall in the world.
It is claimed they are even able to obtain goods from the depths of the Amazon rainforests if ordered in advance! 
One word of warning: make sure you've eaten before you go or you may well end up exceeding your baggage allowance on the way home!  If it's fashion you like, your first stop should be Harvey Nichols.
The grand store brims with every name known to the fashion world from small couturiers to huge, successful concerns.
 Just off Knightsbridge you'll find Sloane Street, home to such famous names as Katherine Hamnett, Lalique, Louis Vuitton, Cartier, and Gianni Versace.
Surrounding the streets of fine shops are quiet roads containing some of the most expensive real estate in the world.
Handsome Georgian and Victorian houses provide homes for super wealthy aristocrats, film stars and musicians while some even act as embassies and consulates.
Despite a vast number of visitors to the main shopping areas, Knightsbridge remains one of the most exclusive areas of London.
Nearest Underground stops:  Knightsbridge, Hyde Park Corner.  
Sandwiched between Oxford Street and Marylebone Lane is one of London's most appealing areas.
Marylebone remains a community in the very heart of London.
Here you find little shops that have been in business since well before the war, flower stalls that have been around since the 1940s, backstreet pubs that host sing-a-longs around the piano and a myriad of other charming glimpses of a London that has changed little over the past century.
At the same time, Marylebone houses trendy boutiques and some fine restaurants making the place particularly alluring.
Despite this, Marylebone has made no concessions to tourists and the majority venture no further than the queue to enter Madame Tussaud's on its northern border.
The emphasis remains on providing for the community of people who live here.
 Nearly all of Marylebone is owned by Lord Howard De Walden who has been careful to ensure that old residents have not been priced out of their houses and that the area has not become overtly commercial.
As a result Marylebone is chic, subtle, charming and attractive n with the added bonus that it's slap bang in the middle of the largest city in Europe!  
Attractions include the famous Madame Tussaud's waxworks and the London Planetarium, the Wallace Collection (an under-visited yet vast collection of decorative arts, paintings and armour), and the BBC Experience (a fascinating interactive museum in Broadcasting House, home to the British Broadcasting Corporation).
Nearest Underground stops:  Marylebone, Baker Street, Regent's Park, Marble Arch, Oxford Circus  
That Mayfair is the top property on the Monopoly board is no idle boast.
The area extends from Oxford Street in the north to Piccadilly in the south and Hyde Park in the west to Regent Street in the East.
The area encompasses stunning residential property and the most exclusive shops in London.
The whole area is owned by the Duke of Westminster who is Great Britain's richest man and a stroll around the impeccable streets will illustrate just why this is.
Mayfair is also home to some of the world's grandest and most prestigious hotels including The Ritz, Brown's, The Dorchester, the Grosvenor House and the delightfully grand Claridge's n if you're unable to afford to stay in one of these opulent places, then at least experience afternoon tea in one n but do ensure you wear a jacket and tie.
 The glorious Burlington Arcade which runs from Piccadilly to Burlington Gardens was built in 1819 and is patrolled by top-hatted Beadles who enforce the rules of 'no singing, whistling or hurrying'! If you turn right at the Burlington Gardens end of the arcade, you'll find Savile Row, world famous for its fine bespoke tailoring.
Turn left out of the arcade and you'll find Bond Street, the smartest shopping street in London with more 'By Royal Appointments' than any other! Here you'll find the chicest clothes and the most expensive jewellery around with famous names like Aspreys, Tiffanys and Cartier wherever you look.
 Mayfair is also home to the Museum of Mankind which houses exhibits from foreign lands and the Royal Academy where constantly rotating exhibitions can display anything from the French Impressionists to Old Masters.
A walk around the streets of Mayfair is a true delight n from Berkeley Square to Park Lane; there are endless sources of visual richness.
Nearest Underground stops:  Green Park, Bond Street, Hyde Park Corner  
Not exactly a Mecca for clowns and acrobats, but certainly a draw for the millions of tourists who visit London each year.
Piccadilly Circus is a rather untidy, traffic-choked place, but is something of a central hub in the West End and a common meeting place.
At its centre is the statue commonly known as Eros but which is actually called the Angel of Christian Charity?
A number of famous streets emanate from the Circus including Piccadilly itself with its smart hotels and shops, including the elegant Fortnum && Mason department store that was founded in 1707, Hatchard's (London's oldest bookshop founded in 1797), The Ritz Hotel and The Royal Academy.
 Traveling in the opposite direction from Piccadilly Circus is Shaftesbury Avenue with its many famous theatres.
The largest road leading from Piccadilly however is the graceful Regent Street designed by John Nash in 1812 as a boulevard for shopping, and still used as such.
Hamley's, the world's largest toy shop is here on the right as is the startling Liberty department store which continues to promote the designs of the Arts and Crafts movement.
Further up Regent Street lies Oxford Circus across which runs Oxford Street.
Despite drawing a constant flow of visitor's, Oxford Street is unremarkable and filled with tatty bargain shops as well as the chain stores you would find in any major city.
The exception can be found at the Marble Arch end of Oxford Street in the form Selfridges, the largest department store in Europe, whose frontage alone is worth a look.
Marble Arch itself stands over a grim history: it marks the spot of the notorious Tyburn, which saw thousands of public executions from 1196 to 1793.
The best idea around Oxford Street is to venture down the smaller streets which often contain old pubs and interesting shops.
Christopher's Place just opposite Bond Street station has an almost invisible entrance and leads to an entirely different world of up-market boutiques, intimate restaurants and charming specialist shops.
Otherwise, pop down Poland Street for a drink and snack at the excellent Porters Bar - a perfect respite from the crowds.
Nearest Underground stops:  Oxford Circus, Piccadilly Circus, Marble Arch  
Home of Brunel's impressive railway terminus which has recently been completely renovated, Paddington is an area of large stucco Victorian houses, many of which have been converted into budget hotels.
They often provide good, reliable budget accommodation in a city renowned for its high prices.
Although the area imparts a slight air of being down at heel, there are many lovely streets and squares.
A charming museum can be found on Craven Hill n the London Toy & Model Museum which houses a vast collection of children’s toys.
They prove popular with both children and adults: one fascinating exhibit is an automated mine which was built from scrap metal by a Welsh coalminer.
 Paddington provides good value accommodation and easy access to all of London's main attractions, not least of which is Hyde Park, just five minutes away by foot.
Furthermore, the Heathrow Express leaves Paddington station every 15 minutes, arriving at the airport just a quarter of an hour later.
Nearest Underground stops:  Paddington, Edgware Road, Lancaster Gate  
Pimlico is primarily a residential area and (Vauxhall Bridge Road aside) has been considerably smartened up in recent years.
As in many parts of London, there are many fine white stucco fronted Victorian houses and beautiful private squares.
The Tate Gallery fronts The Thames and is now home to a fine collection of British art from 1500 to the present day including a vast collection of Turners.
 Victoria encompasses a large area and is a draw for a huge number of tourists perhaps because of the excellent conations to the rest of the UK.
London's largest coach station is here as well as Victoria train station which has a link to Gatwick Airport.
Much of Victoria is pretty shabby however, which is surprising considering its proximity to Buckingham Palace.
Despite this there are some interesting sites including the Catholic Westminster Cathedral (not to be confused with its more famous neighbor, Westminster Abbey).