There, he sculpted and carved the different pieces of the statue before they were assembled in the temple. 
When the statue was completed, it barely fitted in the temple. Strabo wrote: “although the temple itself is very large, the sculptor is criticized for not having appreciated the correct proportions.
 He has shown Zeus seated, but with the head almost touching the ceiling, so that we have the impression that if Zeus moved to stand up he would unroof the temple." 
Strabo was right, except that the sculptor is to be commended, not criticized. 
It is this size impression that made the statue so wonderful.
 It is the idea that the king of gods is capable of unroofing the temple if he stood up that fascinated poets and historians alike. 
The base of the statue was about 6.5 m (20 ft) wide and 1.0 meter (3 ft) high. The height of the statue itself was 13 m (40 ft), equivalent to a modern 4-story building. 
The statue was so high that visitors described the throne more than Zeus body and features.
 The legs of the throne were decorated with sphinxes and winged figures of Victory. 
Greek gods and mythical figures also adorned the scene: Apollo, Artemis, and Niobe's children. 
 In his right hand he holds a figure of Victory made from ivory and gold.
In his left hand, he holds a scepter inlaid with every kind of metal, with an eagle perched on the scepter.
His sandals are made of gold, as is his robe. His garments are carved with animals and with lilies. 
The throne is decorated with gold, precious stones, ebony, and ivory. 
The statue was occasionally decorated with gifts from kings and rulers and the most notable of these gifts was a woolen curtain "adorned with Assyrian woven patterns and Pheonician dye" which was dedicated by the Syrian king Antiochus IV. 
Copies of the statue were made, including a large prototype at Cyrene (Libya). 
None of them, however, survived to the present day. 
Early reconstructions such as the one by von Erlach are now believed to be rather inaccurate. 
For us, we can only wonder about the true appearance of the statue -- the greatest work in Greek sculpture.
Dedicatory inscription of the Lighthouse.
Of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, only one had a practical use in addition to its architectural elegance: The Lighthouse of Alexandria.
 For sailors, it ensured a safe return to the Great Harbor. 
For architects, it meant even more: it was the tallest building on Earth. And for scientists, it was the mysterious mirror that fascinated those most.
The mirror which reflection could be seen more than 50 km (35 miles) off-shore. 
On the ancient island of Pharos, now a promontory within the city of Alexandria in Egypt. 
Shortly after the death of Alexander the Great, his commander Ptolemy Soter assumed power in Egypt. 
He had witnessed the founding of Alexandria, and established his capital there. Off of the city's coast lies a small island: Pharos. 
Its name, legend says, is a variation of Pharaoh's Island, but it is more likely that the name is Greek in origin. 
The island was connected to the mainland by means of a dike - the Heptastadion - which gave the city a double harbor. 
And because of dangerous sailing conditions and flat coastline in the region, the construction of a lighthouse was necessary. 
The project was conceived and initiated by Ptolemy Soter around 290 BC, but was completed after his death, during the reign of his son Ptolemy Philadelphus. 
Sostratus, a contemporary of Euclid, was the architect, but detailed calculations for the structure and its accessories were carried out at the Alexandria Library/Mouseion. 
The monument was dedicated to the Savior Gods: Ptolemy Soter (lit. savior) and his wife Berenice. 
For centuries, the Lighthouse of Alexandria (occasionally referred to as the Pharos Lighthouse) was used to mark the harbor, using fire at night and reflecting sun rays during the day. 
It was even shown on Roman coins, just as famous monuments are depicted on currency today. 
When the Arabs conquered Egypt, they admired Alexandria and its wealth. 
The Lighthouse continues to be mentioned in their writings and travelers accounts.
 But the new rulers moved their capital to Cairo since they had no ties to the Mediterranean. 
When the mirror was brought down mistakenly, they did not restore it back into place. 
In AD 956, an earthquake shook Alexandria, and caused little damage to the Lighthouse.
 It was later in 1303 and in 1323 that two stronger earthquakes left a significant impression on the structure.
 When the famous Arab traveler Ibn Battuta visited Alexandria in 1349, he could not enter the ruinous monument or even climb to its doorway. 
The final chapter in the history of the Lighthouse came in AD 1480 when the Egyptian Mamelouk Sultan, Qaitbay, decided to fortify Alexandria's defense.
He built a medieval fort on the same spot where the Lighthouse once stood, using the fallen stone and marble. 
Of the six vanished Wonders, the Lighthouse of Alexandria was the last to disappear. 
Therefore we have adequately accurate knowledge of its location and appearance. 
Ancient accounts such as those by Strabo and Pliny the Elder give us a brief description of the "tower" and the magnificent white marble cover. 
They tell us how the mysterious mirror could reflect the light tens of kilometers away. 
Legend says the mirror was also used to detect and burn enemy ships before they could reach the shore.
In 1166, an Arab traveler, Abou-Haggag Al-Andaloussi visited the Lighthouse. 
He documented a wealth of information and gave an accurate description of the structure which helped modern archeologists reconstruct the monument.
The lowest square, 55.9 m (183.4 ft) high with a cylindrical core; the middle octagonal with a side length of 18.30 m (60.0 ft) and a height of 27.45 m (90.1 ft); and the third circular 7.30 m (24.0 ft) high. 
The total height of the building including the foundation base was about 117 m (384 ft), equivalent to a 40-story modern building. 
The internal core was used as a shaft to lift the fuel needed for the fire. 
At the top stage, the mirror reflected sunlight during the day while fire was used during the night.
 In ancient times, a statue of Poseidon adorned the summit of the building. 
Although the Lighthouse of Alexandria did not survive to the present day, it left its influence in various respects. 
From an architectural standpoint, the monument has been used as a model for many prototypes along the Mediterranean, as far away as Spain. 
And from a linguistic standpoint, it gave its name -- Pharos -- to all the lighthouses in the world.
Just look up the dictionary for the French, Italian, or Spanish word for lighthouse.
Similar to the Great Pyramid, we are now visiting the burial place of an ancient king. 
Yet the Mausoleum is different - so different from the Pyramid that it earned its reputation - and a spot within the list - for other reasons. 
Geographically, it is closer to the Temple of Artemis.
And it was the beauty of the tomb rather than its size that fascinated its visitors for years. 
In the city of Bodrum (f.k.a. Halicarnassus) on the Aegean Sea, in south-west Turkey. 
When the Persians expanded their ancient kingdom to include Mesopotamia, Northern India, Syria, Egypt, and Asia Minor, the king could not control his vast empire without the help of local governors or rulers -- the Satraps. 
Like many other provinces, the kingdom of Caria in the western part of Asia Minor (Turkey) was so far from the Persian capital that it was practically autonomous.
 From 377 to 353 BC, king Mausollos of Caria reigned and moved his capital to Halicarnassus. 
Nothing is exciting about Maussollos life except the construction of his tomb.
 The project was conceived by his wife and sister Artemisia, and the construction might have started during the king's lifetime. 
The Mausoleum was completed around 350 BC, three years after Maussollos death, and one year after Artemisia's. 
For 16 centuries, the Mausoleum remained in good condition until an earthquake caused some damage to the roof and colonnade.
 In the early fifteenth century, the Knights of St John of Malta invaded the region and built a massive crusader castle. 
When they decided to fortify it in 1494, they used the stones of the Mausoleum. By 1522, almost every block of the Mausoleum had been disassembled and used for construction. 
Today, the massive castle still stands in Bodrum, and the polished stone and marble blocks of the Mausoleum can be spotted within the walls of the structure. 
Some of the sculptures survived and are today on display at the British Museum in London.
These include fragment of statues and many slabs of the frieze showing the battle between the Greeks and the Amazons. 
At the site of the Mausoleum itself, only the foundation remains of the once magnificent Wonder. 
The structure was rectangular in plan, with base dimensions of about 40 m (120 ft) by 30 m (100 ft).
Overlying the foundation was a stepped podium which sides were decorated with statues. 
The burial chamber and the sarcophagus of white alabaster decorated with gold were located on the podium and surrounded by Ionic columns.
 The colonnade supported a pyramid roof which was in turn decorated with statues. 
A statue of a chariot pulled by four horses adorned the top of the tomb. 
The total height of the Mausoleum was 45 m (140 ft). 
This is broken down into 20 m (60 ft) for the stepped podium, 12 m (38 ft) for the colonnade, 7 m (22 ft) for the pyramid, and 6 m (20 ft) for the chariot statue at the top. 
The beauty of the Mausoleum is not only in the structure itself, but in the decorations and statues that adorned the outside at different levels on the podium and the roof.
 These were tens of life-size as well as under and over life-size free-standing statues of people, lions, horses, and other animals. 
The statues were carved by four Greek sculptors: Bryaxis, Leochares, Scopas, and Timotheus, each responsible for one side. 
Because the statues were of people and animals, the Mausoleum holds a special place in history as it was not dedicated to the gods of Ancient Greece. 
Since the nineteenth century, archeological excavations have been undertaken at the Mausoleum site.
 These excavations together with detailed descriptions by ancient historians give us a fairly good idea about the shape and appearance of the Mausoleum.
 A modern reconstruction of the shorter side of the Mausoleum illustrates the lavish nature of the art and architecture of the building... a building for a King whose name is celebrated in all large tombs today -- mausoleums. 
From its building to its destruction lies a time span of merely 56 years. 
Yet the colossus earned a place in the famous list of Wonders. "But even lying on the ground, it is a marvel", said Pliny the Elder. 
The Colossus of Rhodes was not only a gigantic statue.
 It was rather a symbol of unity of the people who inhabited that beautiful Mediterranean island -- Rhodes. 
At the entrance of the harbor of the Mediterranean island of Rhodes in Greece. 
Throughout most of its history, ancient Greece was comprised of city-states which had limited power beyond their boundary. 
On the small island of Rhodes were three of these: Ialysos, Kamiros, and Lindos. 
In 408 BC, the cities united to form one territory, with a unified capital, Rhodes. 