A small charge is made for a 35 minute audio tour, which includes a visit to the crypt
 There has been a church or abbey on this spot since Saxon times and below the church can be seen a section of floor from a Roman house.
You can also see ashes from Roman London, which was burnt down in AD 61 by Boudicca.
 During the Great Fire of London in 1666, Samuel Pepys climbed to the top of the church's brick tower to watch the fire's progress.
At that time it was still called Barking Abbey although it was no longer a monastic abbey.
 Bombing in the Second World War destroyed much of the church building; although the brick tower survived and is today, the only piece of Cromwellian church architecture you will find left standing in the capital.
 This is also a jolly good place to come if you like brass rubbing!  Location: Byward Street, London, EC3R 5BJ. 
The Banqueting House is the only remaining complete building of Whitehall Palace, the sovereign's principal residence from 1530 until 1698 when it was destroyed by fire.
 Designed by Inigo Jones for King James I (1603-25) and completed in 1622, The Banqueting House was originally built for occasions of state, plays and masques.
 The Banqueting House later became the scene of King Charles I's execution.
Today the Banqueting House is a popular visitor attraction and one of the finest banqueting venues in London, playing host to many royal and society occasions.
 If you are thinking of visiting the Banqueting House, why not purchase a London Pass which will admit you to this and many other London attractions for a single payment; it also includes travel by public transport within the London area on buses, tubes and trains, zones 1 - 6.
 For details on the London Pass and a list of attractions that it covers, click here.
The Barbican is comprised of businesses, exclusive residential flats, the Museum of London and the Barbican Arts Centre.
 It is probably the ugliest building in London, although the new British Library may be another contender for the title.
To be fair, some parts of the Barbican are very pleasantly landscaped with fountains and plants, but (with the exception of the roof conservatory) you are never far way from grey 1960's concrete slabs.
The buildings are connected by a maze of raised multi-level walkways.
Even the locals get lost, so allow plenty of time to navigate.
Wherever you're going in the Barbican, the best plan is to enter the centre by the nearest entrance.
Once inside all locations are clearly signposted, unlike the street outside, which is very pedestrian-unfriendly.
 Around some of the concrete corners there are unexpected surprises, like a couple of ancient churches that survived the bulldozer, and even sections of the old London wall.
 Set in the heart of the Barbican is the Barbican Arts Centre, which boasts an art gallery, concert hall, cinema and two theatres.
A charming village like atmosphere pervades the streets and lanes of Barnes due in part to the conspicuous absence of a tube station.
Barnes has been described as a place populated by country folk who can't quite let go of London.
 Characterized by beautiful Georgian houses running along the bank of the Thames and surrounded by the green expanses of Barnes Common, Putney Common and the vast acres of Richmond Park, Barnes does indeed seem a world away from the hustle and bustle of London.
 The village atmosphere is further enhanced by the presence of a village pond and village green, both of which are overlooked by the centuries old Sun Inn.
Just behind the inn sits England's oldest bowling green.
The eighteenth century novelist Henry Fielding lived in one of the houses overlooking the pond and Handel is known to have composed in the area.
 Every Saturday a Farmer's Market takes place by the pond with local produce being sold direct from the producers; here you'll find everything from home baked cakes to the finest cuts of beef and freshest vegetables.
Barnes High Street leads from the pond to the River Thames and is filled with small grocers, green grocers, bakers and butchers.
 Most of the local pubs are owned by Youngs, an excellent family run brewer based in nearby Wandsworth and are well worth a visit.
Of particular mention is the Bull's Head where you can listen to live jazz (including some world class acts) every single day of the week.
Otherwise try Ye White Hart, a large Edwardian riverside pub perfect for spending a pleasant summer's evening on the terrace caressing your pint while listening to the lapping of the Thames and watching the rowers drift by!   Nearest Underground (Tube) Station:  Barnes or Barnes Bridge mainlines.
This hideous looking building (though a great many people are fond of it) has been listed and so should be safe from demolition.
Its designer Sir Giles Gilbert Scott also designed the famous Anglican Cathedral in Liverpool.
 After the power station closed down, a number of suggestions were put forward for its feature.
Eventually it was bought by an entrepreneur who planned to gut the inside of the building and turn it into a giant theme park type amusement complex.
However as the recession of the late 1980's hit Britain, the rebuilding work stopped.
 There are now new plans to house a giant shopping and leisure complex with a 32-screen cinema, inside the shell of the building, due to open in 2001.
This may also include theatres, a film studio and a hotel.
The surrounding area will also be revitalized and it is hoped that a new rail link to the area will also be created.
 The Power Station's other claim to fame is that it appeared on the front cover of the Pink Floyd album "Animals" with a pig flying overhead!    
Situated between Knightsbridge and Chelsea, beautiful Belgravia is the salubrious and wealthy area which houses many of the capital's most eligible figures! Belgrave Square and its surrounding streets is also the location of many embassies.
However, there can be few squares that can equal Eaton Square in providing accommodation for no less than three James Bonds!  Like Mayfair, Belgravia is almost entirely owned by the Duke of Westminster, Britain's richest man.
Row upon row of glorious period houses and pristine squares make up the majority of the area, but there are also a number of extremely exclusive shops, restaurants and attractive pubs.
Sandwiched between many of the grand houses you can find charming cobbled mews containing smaller residences.
 Belgravia is, on the whole, fairly quiet and not the sort of place you'd undertake a raucous pub crawl but is a delight to stroll around on a sunny afternoon.
Big Ben is not open to the public.
Possibly the most famous clock face and chimes in the world, Big Ben is actually the name of the biggest bell (13.5 tons) inside the Clock Tower (320ft) which forms part of the Houses of Parliament.
 Built in 1858/9 the bell was named after one Sir Benjamin Hall and when it was cast it was Britain's heaviest bell.
 The clock's four dials each have a diameter of 23ft, the minute hands are 14ft long and the numerals on each face are nearly 2ft high.
The placing of old pennies in the mechanism controls the accuracy of the clock movement, yet it is incredibly accurate.
 The tower which houses Big Ben has been called by many names; one of the most popular is St Stephen's Tower.
The official line, from the Head of Public Information at the Palace is that the Clock Tower is simply called the Clock Tower.
However, the name Big Ben has now passed into every day use and the locals call it Big Ben so we'll go along with that too.
There is a light at the top of the tower which, when lit, indicates that the House of Commons is sitting.
During the day you can tell if they're sitting by looking for a flag at the top of the nearby Victoria Tower, which is the tallest and largest of the Westminster towers.
 The subject of John Buchan's '39 Steps', the Clock Tower is unfortunately not open to the public so you won't be able to check how many steps actually lead to the belfry.
 However, we can tell you that it is not 39 - It is actually closer to 400 depending on where you start and finish.
 It is widely thought that Buchan dreamt up the idea of using 39 steps at a time when he was recovering from illness in a convalescent home.
Directly outside his windows there were 39 steps leading from the patio to the lawn!   The room that houses the actual clock mechanism is full of Victorian mechanical wonders that whiz and band each time the clock strikes.
 The ding-dongs that precede the striking of the hour were taken from George Frederick Handel's 'Messiah' and actually have lyrics too.
 'All through this hour, Lord by my guide, That by thy power, No foot shall slide.'  The clock plays the first line at a quarter past the hour, the first and second lines on the half hour, three lines at a quarter to and the whole lot on the hour!    
There has been a bridge on this spot since the 1760's, though the present one is about 100 years younger.
 The Bridge and the surrounding area get their name from an order of Dominican monks who had a Monastery here.
They were known as the Black Friars because of their distinctive black habits.
 Queen Victoria opened Blackfriars Bridge in November 1869.
 Next to the bridge you can still see the pillars, which supported the old 1860's London, Chatham and Dover Railway Bridge.
Demand for tickets to Buckingham palace  is high.
The ticket booth, situated across the road from the palace, opens at 09:45.
 Buckingham palace is the London home of The Queen and prince Philip.
Queen Victoria was the first monarch to take up residence here after the architect John Nash transformed it from Buckingham House into a palace.
 In 1845 queen Victoria asked for the Palace to be extended to make more room for her growing family of four children.
As part of the alterations, Marble Arch, which was originally the entrance to the palace, was moved to a new position at the corner of Hyde Park.
The palace is also the administrative headquarters of the monarchy.
The queen receives visiting heads of state at the palace and it is here that the Queen holds garden parties and bestows knighthoods and other honors.
 Foot Guards from the Household Division, in their distinctive red tunics and black bearskins, can be seen on guard duty outside the palace daily.
The Changing the Guard ceremony now takes place only every other day in the winter but it is still daily in the summer months.
After a serious fire damaged Windsor Castle in 1993 the Queen allowed the Palace State rooms to be opened to the public for the first time, to help pay the Windsor Castle repair bill.
When not away, The Queen and Prince Philip spend most weekends at Windsor Castle, where they enjoy horse riding.
It is well worth a visit to what Londoner's often call 'Buck House' but it can be very tiring.
Don't expect to see the queen's private apartments, garden or swimming pool, and you certainly won't meet Her Majesty.
The palace is only open to the public during the summer months, while the Queen is staying at Balmoral, her Scottish castle.
In spite of being seedy, grubby and altogether unattractive, Camden Town still manages to draw heaps of visitors keen to sample its vibrant market and underground music scene.
Indeed, the market now draws in 100,000 every weekend and sells virtually anything that can be placed on a market stall.
The quality of goods varies, but you may well find a genuine bargain.
If the crush of the market gets to you, wander down to the canal and jump onto a barge for a trip through the attractive residential area of Little Venice with its grand Victorian villas.
The barge also travels as far as Regent's Park where you can be dropped in the middle of the famous London Zoo.
Splendidly chic boutiques, exquisite antiques shops and hundreds of charming eighteenth and nineteenth century houses make Chelsea one of the most desirable areas in London.
King's Road is the main shopping area and provides a wealth of opportunity for the keen shopper.
Most outlets (especially on the King's Road) tend to be small, with smart fashionable bars and restaurants jostling for space in between.
Glorious 18th and 19th century buildings abound housing many artistic and literary names just as they have done through the centuries.
 The Royal Hospital was founded in 1682 by Charles II and houses the Chelsea Pensioners (distinguished ex-servicemen) who you will probably see strolling around the streets of Chelsea in their bright red coats and tricorn hats.
Every year the grounds of the Hospital open to the public for the world famous Chelsea Flower Show n one of London's great social events.
 Chelsea is indeed one of London's most delightful residential areas and the ideal place for a stroll on a summer's day.
The City of London is a strange place.
To a Brit, the 'City' doesn't mean the whole of London but simply the 'Square Mile' (actually 1.08 square miles) as it is colloquially known.
 Its boundaries encompass the financial heart of London: an area where 30% of the high-tech office buildings were built within the last ten years; an area which houses the London exchange market where a staggering $637 billion worth of trading (32% of global business) takes place every day.
That's more than the turnover of the next three largest centers, New York, Tokyo and Singapore combined.
 280,000 'city gents', stockbrokers, traders and shopkeepers pile into the City every weekday morning, and pile out again every evening.