The site India Travel Destinations takes you on tours to historical monuments in Kashmir, India and gives you details of tour booking and online reservation for tours to historical monuments in the Kashmir region in India.
The Stupa of Chankuna is a historical site that is an important historical monument that you must visit during your tours to historical monuments in Kashmir, India.
Though the superstructure has been completely destroyed over the years there is a large block right in the middle of the debris.
The base of the Stupa has a square and has a flight of steps on each side.
The Sankaragaurisvara Temple is one monument that you must pay a visit during your tours to historical monuments in Kashmir, India. 
You will notice that the walls of the ruins of this ancient temple are adorned with statutes of Hindu deities, the most prominent being that of Lord Shiva.
The Sugandhesa Temple is one of the important monuments in Kashmir, India.
This temple was never completed but the ruins give us a definite picture of the kind of architectural skills of the medieval times. 
The entrance to the main courtyard of the Sugandhesa Temple is right in the middle of the eastern wall of this temple's peristyle that has two chambers.
Shankara Gauriswara, the temple of Buniar is located on the Jhelum Valley road that is located at a distance of two miles near Rampur. 
This ancient temple is one of the most preserved amongst all the other temples of Kashmir, India.
The gateway to the Temple of Buniar is a double-chambered structure with two arches that face each other.
The temple of Dhathamandir is situated on the Jhelum Valley.
There is one difference between the two temples and that is Dhathamandir does not have a colonnade. 
The central shrine at the Dhathamandir faces the north-east and is constructed of a green limestone.
The Hazratbal Mosque an important Islamic shrine that is located in the village of Hazratbal that is located on the banks of the Dal Lake.
During your tours to the historical monuments in Kashmir, India you must visit this shrine built of pure white marble. 
The shire is famous as it contains a strand of hair of the prophet Muhammad.
During your tours to the Hazratbal mosque in Srinagar, Kashmir, India you will notice that this is the only mosque in Kashmir that has a dome as all the other mosques have pagoda like roofs.
The Shankaracharya temple is located on top of a hill in Srinagar in Kashmir, India and this sacred temple is known as the Takht-I-Sulaiman as from this point you have the most panoramic view of the entire city of Srinagar in Kashmir, India.
 It is believed that the great seer and philosopher, Shankaracharya stayed here during his visit to Srinagar in Kashmir, India for the spread of the Sanatan dharma.
During your tours to historical sites and monuments in Kashmir, India you can also visit the Jama Masjid located at Nowhatta, Srinagar in Kashmir, India. 
 This historical monument is an excellent example of Indo-Saracenic architecture. 
Over the years this mosque was destroyed thrice due to fire and was reconstructed again.
Khanqah of Shah Hamadan is located on the banks of the River Jhelum. 
This historic Khanqah is a wooden building and is adorned with bells and carvings.
The Hari Parbat Fort is located on top of a hill was the summer retreat of the Mughal emperors. 
Another historical site that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in Kashmir is the Makhdoom Sahib that is a shrine located on the south of the Hari Parbat hill.
Chhatti Padshahi Gurudwara located in Kashmir, India was constructed to commemorate the site where the sixth Sikh Guru came to preach Sikhism in Kashmir, India.
The other places of historical interest in Srinagar in Kashmir, India are Martand that has a temple that is dedicated to the Hindu deity, Surya or the Sun God, the Kheer Bhawani Temple that is dedicated to the Goddess Ragnya Devi and the Avantipur Ruins.
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours to Kerala for the benefit of the honeymooners in India while propagating the fabled backwaters and the traditional boat races of Kerala as the favorite Honeymoon Destinations in India for people to undertake Honeymoon in Kerala.
India Travel Destinations does congratulatory work to promote Honeymoon in Kerala for honeymooners in India. 
Be it the wet and picturesque paddy fields of Kottayam which are located at a sea level which is lower than the rest of Kerala or the spice land of Munnar, Idukku and Lakkidi. 
Kerala has always been regarded as an ideal setting as a Honeymoon Destination in India for the honeymooners in India to undertake a Honeymoon in Kerala.
Kerala has a generous smattering of lovey dovey beaches for taking twosome dips in the tangy waters and on the other hand it is also host to the Rain Resorts in its dense rain fed Tropical forests to serve as a perfect Honeymoon Destination in India for the sake of honeymooners in India.
India Travel Destinations includes among its itinerary, top draws of the order of Cochin and Munnar.
Cochin is a sultry town with a populated coastline while four hours drive from this steamy place are the verdant and lush green tea plantations of Munnar with a cool breeze, ideally suited to the temper of honeymooners in India.
Of special interest and attraction can be the lush, green and magically blue colored Nelakurinji, which impart a celestial tone to Munnar as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India for honeymooners in India.
Thiruvanathapuram District is home to the internationally renowned beach resort of Kovalam, with three adjacent crescent beaches serving as key Honeymoon Destinations in India for honeymooners in India.
Then, adding spice to the admixture is the Bypeen Island, which is popular for physical activities of the order of swimming with the star attraction being the occasional but widely awaited appearance of the mysterious Dolphins.
Honeymooners in India can option for Khajuraho if they have a feel for a classy type outing and also a yen for the Indian Historicity.
 Khajuraho as a key and attractive Honeymoon Destination in India is visual delight as far as the honeymooners in India are concerned.
Khajuraho is a much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India as visits to the locale and advertisements of the place showcase.
Honeymoon in Khajuraho is a treat to be ravished when it comes to the door of the newly weds. 
Khajuraho as a major Honeymoon Destination in India is a collection of sculpture and wall murals, which are very explicit in nature. 
The theme which resonates frequently in the Khajuraho sculpture and murals are various positions of lovemaking and romantic interludes being portrayed in the depicted postures in Khajuraho, a much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India for the utility of honeymooners in India.
King Yasovarman initiated the construction of Khajuraho Temples in 950 A.D., which was a marvel of monumental construction in the era of Chandela Dynasty. 
Apart from Ooty it is one of the most visited Honeymoon Destinations in India, especially in the Western Ghats, as honeymooners in India will vouch face. 
When it comes to the complete synchronization of the sentiment of the place and the mood of the travelers then, Khajuraho wins hands down with the honeymooners in India. 
Interestingly, one of the temples, Chausat Yogini is rumored to be haunted in Khajuraho, a chief Honeymoon Destination in India.
The scenes depicted in the murals vary from hunting, feasting to scenes bearing an erotic tinge.
In toto, around 82 temples were constructed out of which only 22 have been rescued out of the palour of extinction by the effort of Captain T.S. Burt, a British engineer who discovered them in 1838.
India Travel Destinations arranges for travels and tours to Kolkata, which is a pristine and historical place known all across the country for its Old World charm and the Raj historicity. 
Kolkata as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India is revered and coveted mostly for its historical monuments dating back to 17th and 18th century, which abound in pomp and grandiosity for the benefit of honeymooners in India.
Kolkata, as a Honeymoon Destination in India will regale honeymooners in India by the old world Firangi buildings and the "Bhadra Lok" grace of Kolkata, a much sought after Honeymoon Destination in India. 
Kolkata was a small seafaring town to begin with but it was only with the incursion of the British Colonial Rule that Kolkata came to be regarded as the bulwark of an incipient British Empire in Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
The descendants of one Sabarna Roy Choudhary inhabiting Barisha, a small suburb in this Honeymoon Destination in India sold off Kolkata to East India Company for a meager quantum of 1,200 Rs and since then it remained India's capital.
It was only in 1912 that Kolkata ceased to be the capital when it was shifted to Lutyen's Delhi.
Honeymoon in Kolkata would include places of notice of the order of the Central Business District (CBD) which is a big relief and architectural revelation of sorts, far from the traffic snarl ups, patches of squalor and poverty which are the only sore points in an otherwise historic City laden with spell bounding monuments and cultural landmarks.
 Chowringhee, located in this Honeymoon Destination in India, is the busiest part of the town, which houses modernish theatres, restaurants and once tired the starry eyed couples can saunter across to the roadside meadow popularly known as the " Maidan" to the localities.
Fort William is another historical spot with its foundation being laid in 1757 and bears the marks of the legendary Lord Clive. 
Another key place for the couples is Sibpur, located in this sought after Honeymoon Destination in India, which is home to a two century old Banyan tree which stands tall at a proud 100 feet much to the delight of Honeymooners in India.
Other places worth a visit include, Nakoda Mosque, Kali Temple, Marble temple and Rabindra Sarovar making Kolkata as a major Honeymoon Destination in India for the honeymooners in India.
India Travel Destination enables a Winter Sports for an enthusiast and an adventurous soul who is into outdoor Sports to avail of the opportunity which Kullu provides to tourists with a yen for skiing, trekking, etc. 
Himalayas are adorned with beautiful valleys with enough slopes to be exploited positively for the sake of Adventure Sports.
Kullu is a congregation point of streams of reverie water drifting down from an astoundingly large number of valleys, which are eight in number. 
They include the names of Ani, Manikaran, Korpan, Lug, Banjar, Garsa and the likes to make Kullu, the Hill Station in India, rich in water.
Himalayas are replete with a varied and eclectic hue of cultures and civilizations ruling the roost in the snow capped heights. 
Kullu is home to festivals and celebrations on a grand and colorful note, which are carried on by people of Malani Tribe.
 Festivals of the order of Malani, Phalguni, Shahri Jatra and Birshu are carried on with great gusto and fanfare in the Kullu valley, a prominent Hill Station in India.
As a prominent Hill Station in India, Phagli celebrated by the Malani Tribe is of immense significance to tourists. 
The gala reminds us of the eternal scuffle between good and evil which is portrayed by a stimulated colorful battle between the inhabitants of Malana and Archhandi village. 
Other festivities are also visual feasts for the admiring travelers with a yen for folklore, details and legend.
Kullu among all Hill Stations in India enjoys a special significance, as it is the hub of Himalayan Adventure Sports activities. 
Kullu Valley is known all over the World for Heliskiing.
This sport has been conveniently arranged near Bhrigu peaks in the Hamta pass and Solang Nala too is another convenient place for the furtherance of this high on-adrenaline-sport. 
River Beas and its thunderous gushes are also perfect places for river rafting in certain stretches.
The site India Travels Destinations offers you details regarding tours to historical monuments in and around Kushinagar in Bihar, India. 
Kushinagar is of special historical importance and is a Buddhist pilgrimage destination. This little town is located in a pastoral landscape and is located at a distance of 53 kilometers from Gorakhpur in Bihar, India. 
This place was called Kushinara during Lord Buddha's lifetime.
Mahabpdhi Temple Kushinagar is a historic site of great significance as it is here that Lord Buddha passed away.
 It is believed that this saint achieved Mahaparinirvana that liberated him from the cycle of birth and death.
Some of the historical monuments located in the region are the Buddhist viharas, a Burmese Vihara, some temples and a Tibetan gompa that is dedicated to Sakhyamuni.
The Mahaparinirvana temple is one place that you must visit during your tours to historical places in Kushinagar, Bihar, India. 
This ancient temple is set in the midst of Sal trees.
The most attractive feature of this temple is the statue of Lord Buddha in a reclining position.
The Mata Kunwar Shrine is an important Buddhist pilgrimage that houses a 10th Century blue schist image of Lord Buddha.
The Rambhar Stupa is an important pilgrimage site that you may visit during your tours to historical monuments in the region. 
It is believed that this stupa is the exact site where Lord Buddha was cremated and it is also believed that all his relics were divided into eight parts.
Ladakh popularly known, as the rooftop of the World is another exquisitely planed height, which can serve as an ideal Honeymoon Destination in India for honeymooners in India.
 Honeymoon in Ladakh is a novel concept in the sense that it is only an imaginative traveler who is tired of the  routine menus, boat rides and stale handicrafts and seeks spiritual solace and quiet in the long lonesome walks and vast unending bald planes and savor its chilling delights.
This Honeymoon Destination in India ideally suited for the benefit of the more restive of the honeymooners in India, is the proud possessor of several landmarks of note.
 Pangong Lake in Kashmir, which is the World's highest brackish lake, is perched at a height of 14,256 feet above seal level.
Royal and Army insignias abound in these long lonesome stretches which have a beauty and charm of their own, which impart a special ethereal quality to this Honeymoon Destination in India for the utility of honeymooners in India and abroad.
No Honeymoon in Ladakh can be complete without partaking of the Hemis Festival, which is an annual celebration of the Dugpa order which gives a religious tenor to the honeymooners in India once they visit Ladakh. 
Honeymoon in Ladakh can be a mesmerizing experience with all the attendant cymbals, drums and the traditional musical instruments to serve as a backdrop to Ladakh as an idyllic Honeymoon Destination in India for the honeymooners in India.
Ladakh is known as the land of passages and passes as it has many strategic passes and roads going through its territory, which are also of immense Defense value. 
Then, this Honeymoon Destination in India is also home to Siberian Cranes in the Mahe marshlands and a couple oriented towards photographically capturing the beauty of these tracts, has ample of opportunity in this idyllic Honeymoon Destination in India.
As a Honeymoon Destination in India, Ladakh boasts of a tour itinerary of Alchi, the initiator place to Shev in the end, with the locations of Phyang, Leh, Hemis and Thilsey forming the mid halts in the whole tour for honeymooners in India as a peculiar Honeymoon Destination in India. 
The more adventurous newly wedded one can go ahead to treks emanating from Leh.