Among all hill stations in India, leaving apart a few of the genre, Mount Abu is one hill station in India which is located in the middle of a land which is a rarified desert for all practical purposes. 
Mount Abu is placed on the boundary between Rajasthan and Gujarat with a natural mandate to serve as a hill station for the relatively dry and arid western part of the country.
The ride up to the Mount from the foothill town of Abu -Road serves as an apt reminder of the fact that one is fast approaching a charming hill station in India, almost an oasis amidst the desert. 
Rajasthan so commonly characterized as the land of chivalry and bravery, is also home to the largest desert of India, The Thar desert. 
This sandy tract of land adjoining Pakistan boasts of Udaipur, the city of lakes and Mount Abu, our prime concern here among other hill stations in India, the snow capped beauties of Himalayas and their sylvan surroundings.
The height and the strategic location serves as a favorite vantage point for the people and tourists to encamp themselves on the scattered rocks and watch the spectacle of Sunrises and Sunsets.
This peculiar hill resort bejeweled by the city center Nakki lake, is one place amongst the hill stations in India which has a lot of legend attached to it. 
Arbuda, the hill serpent descended from the hills to act as a savior for Lord Shiva's Bull, Nandi. 
Then Mount Abu amongst the hill stations in India is also blessed with the historically important Delwara temples and other archeological remains of note.
These are temples of significance to the Jain pilgrims. 
The temples in this hill station in India boast of immense architectural beauty and finesse among all other hill stations in India. 
Delwara is a key Indian Archeological site, nestled in the rocky and sylvan surroundings of Mount Abu. 
These marvel of carvings built between 11th and 13th century A.D. are dedicated to the Jain Tirthankars.
 The most ancient of the holy abodes is the Vimal Vashi temple, which is dedicated to the first Tirthankar, constructed by Vimal Shah, a Gujrati merchant.
These are some of the wares that Mount Abu as a hill station in India has to offer to its visitors.
The tour guide, India Travel Destination offers a series of package tours to the enthusiasts to undertake adventure tourism in India, which is tourism with a difference. 
India is endowed with an eclectic deluge of places and sites to choose from when it comes to taking up one's backpacks and embarking on a breathtaking trek down a frozen lake or launching one self onto a thunderous river rafting expedition in the dangerously curvaceous Ganges.
India Travel Destinations organizes for tours to places of adventure tourism in India, which is tourism with a difference and a bit high on the adrenaline and heartbeats.
 India has been a bit slow into commercially exploiting its rich natural heights, waterfalls and galactic glaciers and marketing its old world bounties to the new world enthusiasts. 
Adventure tourism in India offers rare opportunities of the order of parasailing, skiing, water sports, river rafting, trekking and mountain climbing to name some of the chief deals on offer in India.
Parasailing is carried with great gusto and enthusiasm in places of the order of, Bundla Dhar near Bilaspur and Intkali in Pabbar valley near Rohru in Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. 
Parasailing is a sport, which is a combination of skydiving and para gliding both being high on adrenaline sports, rolled in to one.
Skiing is yet another offering of adventure tourism in India which is tourism with a difference. 
Skiing as a sport can be a very thrilling and exhilarating experience, which does not require special gear like other sports of the same genre.
Places where a tourist can whiz past his worries include Gulmarg in Jammu and Kashmir, Auli in Grawhal, Kufri and Narkanda in Himachal Pradesh.
The Site India Travel Destinations makes sure that you get an opportunity to enjoy the rustic glory and ancient charm of the city of Ajmer in Rajasthan, India during your tours to historical monuments in the northern part of India.
There are a number of places of historical interest in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India that you could tour to during your historical tours to this historical city. 
These are the Ajmer Sharif, Anasagar lake, Dargah of Miran Syed Husain, Jama Al-Tamish and the Taragarh fort.
The Ajmer Sharif located in the oldest part of the town and is one of the most important historical sites that you must visit during your tours to the historical monuments in Ajmer, India. 
Ajmer Sharief is famous for the tomb of Hazrat Moinuddin Chishti, the saint who founded the Sufi order. 
The Sufi saints are considered to be the greatest ambassadors of Islam in Pakistan and India.
The Anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by Raja Anaji sometime in the 1150 A.D. 
During your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the Chilla Khawaja Saheb that is located atop the Anasagar Ghati.
You should also visit the Baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the Anasagar lake. 
These lovely pavilions were constructed by the Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan.
Hazrat Miran Syed Husian Asghar Khangswar's Dargah is located on the highest point of the Taragarh fort. 
During your tours to the historical monuments in Ajmer, India you must visit the Jama Al-Tamish that is popularly known as Dhai Din-Ka-Jhonpra. 
This lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region. 
This monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of Indo-Islamic architecture. 
The minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen.
The massive Taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates.
 During your tours to the historical monuments in Ajmer, India you get an opportunity to visit the Miran Saheb ki Dargha that is located inside the Taragarh fort.
Arunachal Pradesh is a dreamy, misty land nestled in the middle of ancient tribal lands and Cultures. 
Its rich flora, diversity of demography and biodiversity makes it one of the most poetically pleasing hill stations in India. 
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours to this marvelously natural and Neanderthal hill station in India.
Arunachal Pradesh is host to 20 odd tribes and a larger number of sub tribes that have their origin in one main stump but the geographic isolation down the years has lead to a distinctness, which can be deciphered but by a trained eye. 
Three stocks of populaces/tribes to be more precise inhabit Arunachal Pradesh, a prominent hill station in India. 
They being, Marpas, Sherdukpens, Membas and Khambas who live in the high mountains and are rumoured to have their origin in Burma and Thailand. 
Moreorless, it is the religious preferences and the agricultural practices followed by the tribes of Arunachal Pradesh, which account for the uniqueness of this hill station in India.
Most of the tribes in Arunachal Pradesh tend to follow the techniques of Jhumming, shifting agriculture and terrace farming in order to grow crops and survive.
This showcases a minute section of the multifarious stocks of people and is only a minor glimpse of the great variety that lies in store for tourists in this unique hill station in India.
Other attractions in the itinerary followed by India Travel Destinations are the Buddhist center of worship, Tawang Monastery and the immensely popular Parsuram Kund.
Mahabodhi temple Bihar The Anasager lake is an artificial lake that was constructed by Raja Anaji sometime in the 1150 A.D. 
During your tours to the historical monuments to the region you can visit the Chilla Khawaja Saheb that is located atop the Anasagar Ghati. 
You should also visit the Baradaris or marble pavilions that were constructed on the banks of the Anasagar lake. 
These lovely pavilions were constructed by the Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan.
Hazrat Miran Syed Husian Asghar Khangswar's Dargah is located on the highest point of the Taragarh Fort. 
Hazrat Miran was the governor of Ajmer at some point of time in history.
During your tours to the historical monuments in Ajmer, India you must visit the Jama Al-Tamish that is popularly known as Dhai Din-Ka-Jhonpra. 
This lovely mosque is one of the most frequented by those who tour to this region. 
This monument is a remarkable example of a unique blend of Indo-Islamic architecture. 
The minarets and pillars at this monument are examples of excellent architectural skill and acumen.
The massive Taragarh fort is famous for its architectural splendor and its huge gates. 
During your tours to the historical monuments in Ajmer, India you get an opportunity to visit the Miran Saheb ki Dargha that is located inside the Taragarh fort.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, presents the willing and exploring tourist to discover and partake of the glorious sight of Camel Safaris in India, which is a very popular aspect of adventure tourism in India. 
Camel Safaris in India bring to fore the images of the ships of deserts, treading up the barren sand dunes of rajasthan with their musical trinkets and decorative ornaments provide an appropriate backdrop for a Rajasthani bard to let loose his poetic imagination to great value.
Camel Safaris in India are a quit essentially Rajasthani affair. 
Safari as a term in English language refers to a long journey, an odyssey with the distance to be traveled to be through a wilderness in order to give the goose bumps to the wary traveler, which is a unique aspect of adventure tourism in India. 
Camel Safaris are only held in Rajasthan in India with the key zones to reach out being, the traditional and historical townships of Jaisalmer and Bikaner. 
The camel fair at Pushkar can be another added attraction if the travelers want to witness a camel dance in all its elegant glory.
In a stereotypical Camel Safari in India, the interested traveler can look out for the rare golden brown sand dunes in the middle of a camel safari, undertaken by an authorized tour operator. 
A Camel Safari in India, thus carried out can be a thrilling experience for the uninitiated one as the wind swept tracts of sand coupled with the beatific sunsets and sunrises on the offing, are a treat to watch and are a once in a lifetime opportunity.
India Travel Destinations arranges for tours to Chail so that the so-inclined can go and visit Chail, which is another proud and prestigious jewel in the crown of hill stations in India, Himachal Pradesh.
Now, Chail could measure up to a much larger Shimla, the summer capital of the British empire, and another hill station in India.
Maharaja Bhupinder Singh was deprived of the right of entry into the more royal and grandiose Shimla as he had a spat with Lord Kitchener.
Indian Travel Destinations, out travel guide provides ample of opportunity to travel and explore this qualified it and one of the most picturesque and enthralling hill stations in India. 
The palace in Chail which is one of the most ebullient of all hill stations in India is a treat to visit.
The palace regales the historically inclined tourist to its royal rooms and suits, its log huts and bamboo cottages. 
The tourist has a vast expanse of meadows and grassy knolls to look forward to in this enchanting hill station in India, Himachal Pradesh.
The Chail wild life sanctuary is another showpiece in the itinerary of wares which Chail, a royal hill station in India has to offer to its connoisseurs. 
The animal life is thick with Ghoral, Kakkar, Sambhar and Cheer Pheasants, to name a few animals.
Chennai, as a key Honeymoon destination in India is home to several attractive Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai, which can delight honeymooners in India, no bounds. 
Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai are replete with all the variety that a bustling metro pole can account for, for the benefit of honeymooners in India. 
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide arranges for these tours to these much-coveted Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai.
Honeymooners in India can avail of Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai with the way being led by names of the order of The Taj Coromandel Hotel, The Chola Sheraton Hotel, Fisherman's Clove Hotel and Le Meridian Hotel to name a few trail blazers in the local hospitability industry as the most sought after of Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai.
In the normal course of events, all Hotels in exotic locales are a big draw for people but Honeymoon Hotels in Chennai belong to a different class altogether.
It is a perfect and balanced amalgamation of the southern and oriental exclusivity with the western tenets of hospitality and efficient service right at the doorstep of honeymooners in India.
As a Honeymoon Hotel in Chennai, The Chola Sheraton is no mean in as a destination for honeymooners in India.
India Travel Destinations, the site, provides a nature and wild life seeker with a golden opportunity to explore the natural delights offered, by undertaking a tour to Chithirapuram, which is a less discovered hill station in India. 
Kerala is closer to public conscience as a land of sleepy backwaters and sunlit horizons with boats fading out in the distance to quarters accessible only to the famed boatmen.
 Apart from this picture postcard beauty of Kerala, a tour to Chithirapuram reveals its agricultural importance to the more interested souls. 
The Spices Board of Kerala has under its ambit two major nurseries, with one being at Chithirapuram, which enjoys a deeper identity as a hill station in India.
A tour to Chithirapuram reveals the hill station to be a sleepy little folksy, congregation of nature's delights. 
This hill station in India is home to the Pallyvasal Hydel project and add to this meager qualification as a center of natural beauty, it has a liberal smattering of tea plantations, which a tour to Chithirapuram would reveal.
India Travel Destinations provides the visitor with an all-enabling kitty of info bytes with its proposed programme of sightseeing for the tourist to experience the backstage of the scene of hill stations in India.
India Travel Destinations, our tour guide, provides the willing with an opportunity to travel down to Mathupetty Reservoir for a taste of speedboat racing and visit the delights of the Indo-Swiss farm located in the near vicinity of Chithirapuram.
A stroll down the tea plantations is what we all yearn for after all they are a perfect visual feast ever so immaculately captured by the magicians of Bollywood. 
Tea plantations are also part of Munnar, which is a hill station of note in Kerala India.
India Travel Destinations, the tour guide, is well resourced enough to undertake tours to Chithirapuram as a lesser known but worth-a-visit hill station in India.
 It provides relevant information and booking for package tours of Chithirapuram and its nearby sub-centers.