This nectar comes from the miles and miles of orange orchards in Meghalaya, and you get to take away this little bit heaven from Cherraprnjee and Mawsynram, the best places to buy orange honey in the state. 
The honey tastes quite different from what you find in the markets elsewhere, and as such, has a very distinct flavour that many claim complete addition to. 
Pop into Cherra Bazaar in Cherrapunjee to shop for areca nut and cinnamon sticks. 
Lawmusiang in Jowai, meanwhile, is the largest Jaintia market, is undoubtedly the best place to buy spices in Meghalaya. 
Flanked by Bangladesh on the west and Myanmar on the east and south, our hilly state of Mizoram is synonymous with peace.
Mizoram has come a long way-from turbulence between 1966 to 1986 to its present state of peace and prosperity. 
So, apart from the hilly terrain, deep gorges and idyllic landscape, what Mizoram has to offer you is complete peace of mind. 
We have no monuments or heritage buildings to boast of, but the State’s scenic beauty is unparalleled. 
It is also a land of beautiful music.
Dssssssddskjs mizos are good singers-walk into any church on a Sunday and let the lilting choir music mesmeries you. 
There are also unique handicrafts that you can buy here and of course you must try our food. 
We are also great hosts and believe that the guest is God, so we will do our utmost to make sure they are happy and contented.
For a great holiday, come to Mizoram.
Lakeside cottage, the real reason to stay at cottages is the stunning natural lake, Tamdil; the name literally meaning the ‘lake of mustard plant’. 
Legend has it that there was once a huge mustard plant in the place of the lake, and when the plant was cut off, jets of water flowed out from it creating pool of water around. 
Girdled by deciduous with many species of fish, this lake commands your attention at all times. 
The cottages may be devoid of any luxury, but Tamdil lake and its surrounds will make you forget such worldly worries. 
Tourist lodge, with its extensive paddy fields, champhai, about 192 km east of Aizawl, is picture-perfect countryside on the Indo-Myanmar border.
With the smoky Blue Mountains- a riot of colours in summer when the rhododendrous are in full bloom-providing its stunning backdrop, this simple lodge makes for an ideal place to unwind. 
Walk back in time at Ruantlang village close by, where the Mizos still live much as their ancestors did. 
Imagine something that is hot, really hot, but not spicy. Nga-thu-um can take some getting used to but this chutney is something you must try once. 
Made of dried fish, mashed tomatoes and chillies (called bird-eye these chillies are as hot as it gets), you can have this as a dip, or mix it with rice like the locals. 
Thanks to the rice bowl of Champhai, rice dishes are a speciality here. 
Don’t miss out on Buh-Chhior, a kind of Mizo biryani (more like khichadi actually).
If you want some spicier stuff then go for sawchiar, a turmeric-laced chicken-and-rice preparation. 
Bhuban, or rice cooked in banana leaves, is another must-try.
A broth-like concoction of meat and vegetables, Bai is usually made by boiling spinach with pork and bamboo shoot. And peppered with herbs, string beans and edible ferns.
The best place to have any of these is with Mizo families. 
Like any typical Mizo dish, Bai uses no spices, with bamboo shoot acts as the main flavouring agent. 
Eat it with steamed rice. 
Eateries along the highway are a good bet to sample traditional Mizo food.
In Mizoram, meat translates to pork, and you can pamper your tastebuds with a number of pork preparations. 
Vawksa rep (roasted pork) and sa-um (fermented pork fat) are some of the most popular dishes. 
If you are a little adventurous, try the meat of the Mithun (a cross between a cow and a yak), usually prepared during special occasions. 
Sharing a meal with a traditional Mizo family will be an unforgettable experience. 
Though Mizo, like most north-eastern people, are a friendly lot, you may want to do the proper thing and request the Youn Mizo Association to arrange a feast with a tribal family.
The local dishes are usually served on a fresh green, banana leaf, which adds to the wholesome, hearty meal. 
Pick a Puan, the traditional Mizo shawl, from the colourful local market here. 
Luangmual handicraft centre, at a distance of only 7 km from Aizawl, with stunning mountain views, this place will make for a great day trip out of the capital. 
Shopaholics should give nature’s bounty a royal ignore, and head straight to the Luangmual Handicrafts Centre. 
Pick from a variety of intricately designed traditional Mizo hats and shawls here. 
About 150 km south of Aizawl, Thinzawl is another good place to shop. 
A cheerful bazaar here features a wide range of colorful products, ranging from local handicrafts to some rather interesting imported goods. 
At Bau Tlang in Aizawl is a typical Indian bazaar where locals, dressed in their traditional clothes, sell everything from toys to fresh river crabs. 
With their intricately woven wicker baskets loaded with products from their farmland or homestead, you can make your choice from traditional crafts and woven textiles such as the intricately woven Puan, the famous Mizo shawl. 
The ceremonial bamboo hat, Khumbeu, is made of waterproof wild hnathial leaves.
Only men wear it in Mizoram, but don’t let that stop you from gifting it to woman-it’s worn only on special occasions, is a great memento to have from Mizoram. 
To buy Khumbeu, try the State Government and Handloom Emporium at Ritz Market, Aizawl.
Within its fold, the mountains of Nagaland hold a million surprises. 
There is such richness here, from an abundance of natural beauty to history, heritage and a poignant reminder of times gone by. 
The hills burst with lush greenery, the jungles are thick and mysterious. 
Amidst all this stunning beauty, there live more than a dozen tribes, each with its own fascinating tapestry of socio-cultural variety. 
Tribal culture thrives in Nagaland in all its splendor and it’s like nothing you would have seen before. 
Visit Kohima with its immaculately preserved War Cemetery or Khonoma village with its beautiful terraces carved out of hill slopes. 
There’s Dzukou valley, also called the Valley of Eternal Charm, with its repertoire of adventure sports and stretches upon stretches of beautiful flowers, especially orchids. 
For those who prefer thrills at the table, there’s always the state’s famously adventurous cuisine. 
See the best of Nagaland, with lively dances to the beat of a log drum, traditional costumes in a riot of colours, and the punch of freshly brewed rice beer at the Hornbill Festival in the first week of December in Kisma. 
Come and visit us, respond to the call of the valley. 
You will find yourself drawn to return. 
Nathu Garden, Dimapur, stay in cottage built to resemble traditional Naga huts, but with all modern facilities at your fingertrips.
Opened recently, Nathu Garden resort offers both Naga food and if you miss hjome already, there’s regular fare as well.
If you are looking for above-average lodging facilities, Hotel Saramati three-star hotel in Dimapur is a very good bet.
It is the best option in this town, with great food and well appointed rooms.
Run by the same management as the Japfr Ashok in Kohima, the Saramati is known for its exceptional pork dishes. 
Tuophema Village Resort, home to the Angami tribes, the village community has itself developed and run this resort. 
You won’t have to rough it out-all facilities have been incorporated into an authentic setting. 
Stay in the typical huts for a real feel of being in the Naga heartland. 
One of the best hotel in town, the Japfr Ashok has two-star facilities for a comfortable stay, and is right in the middle of the town’s din and bustle, with the main bazaar close by.
If you are unable to find rooms in hotels or circuit houses, especially during the festivals, staying with a Naga family as a paying guest is a great idea. 
Families are welcoming and friendly, and there is no better way to see Nagaland than through their eyes.
Check with your travel agent, or enquire about homestay options in the tourist information centre at Kohima or Dimapur.
Nagaland is fascinating, if a vegetarian’s nightmare. 
I love Khonoma village, and have returned to it again and again for its brilliant architecture and wonderful people, especially the kids. 
Take a drive on the misty and magical Kohima-Imphal road for a glimpse of true beauty. 
Pfhidi-calhe, if you can manage to stomach the exotic, takes a deep breath and samples this hornet’s larvae delicacy. 
Cooked with tomatoes, green chillies, ginger, onion and garlic, the dish takes nearly two hours to cook to perfection at many restaurants in the state, but those who love the larvae know it is all worth it.
For great Indian and Chinese food, we heartily recommend Dimori Cove, where Naga dishes are served on advance order.
There are also other great Dhabas, selling a variety of food, on the Kohima-Dimapur highway. 
Good ones include P Thema, Jona Pani and Medziphera. 
For crunchy fried bliss, beef or pork skin wafers are perfection itself. 
The skin is cleaned and roasted over a fire, then immediately soaked in water, rinsed and cooked till tender. 
It is then cut into small pieces and dried in the sun, before being deep-fried in oil. 
Dip them into the traditional black chutney made of sesame, dry bamboo shoots, bitter gourd, Naga basil leaves and chilly powder.
Nagaland grows a lot of pineapple and the simple and delicious pineapple stew (pineapple cooked in sugar and water) is a great way to end a traditional Naga spread. 
Nagas certainly know what they like on their plate. 
Silkworm cooked with ginger, garlic and onions is considered a delicacy that you won’t find in regular restaurants; order it at the Tuophema Village Resort or in one of the dhabas. 
Kenia Nula Gacha, if the larvae and silkworms are too exotic for you, why not try some snails with sesame? This traditional Naga dish also has red chilli powder and fermented soya beans to add intense flavour. 
Naga food cay be too ‘out there’ for some, but you can also go easy on your stomach and opt for simple dishes like chicken with ginger and bamboo shoots, which still have a lot of flavour. 
All small restaurants make excellent ‘Nagamese’ food, a winning combination of Naga and Assamese cuisine. 
I loved staying with the friendly villagers in their homes and living the way they do, eating with them, learning about them. 
Homestay is the ultimate way to experience the Naga way of life, I recommend it highly. 
You can find out about these at tourist centres in Kohima. 
It goes without saying, but don’t forget while you’re visiting Nagaland. 
A place tailor-made for tourism, with its vibrant bazaars and plethora of unique tribal handicrafts, Ruzaphema’s bazaars make for quite a shopping experience. 
You don’t just walk into a shop to make a purchase; you really do see the best exaple of Naga culture around you.
There’s tribal jewellery, handicrafts, and wood carvings to choose from, but no one leaves Nagaland without a colourful shawl.
Ruth’s and Haralu Emporia, Dimapur, these two are special shops, and just because you find traditional handicrafts here, shawls in particular. 
You also get to watch Naga woman at work on their traditional looms, weaving the beautiful shawls.
If you want to buy directly from the artisans, visit the crafts village to pick up bamboo and cane products, shawls, wood carving, and fascinating wooden toys. Which is a new industry.
Most of the villagers make  handloom and handicraft products for a living, and if you’re worried about quality, rest assured-with recent government support, products are now better finished than ever before.