The Fort of Khimsar has a lot of diversity in its architecture.
Prince Karamasi originally built the fort,The fort was originally built as a protection of the village from foreign or neighboring invasions.
The walls, turrets, and stables were built around 16th century AD only for the purpose of war.
By the middle of the 18th century, the royal family moved into the fort when a new zenana or ladies' residence was added to the existing construction.
Thakur Onkar Singh, 17th direct descendant of Prince Karamsi, the current owner and chief added a regal wing in the 1940's for himself.
Later the fort was converted into Heritage Hotel and ranks amongst the best Heritage Hotels of India.
Jodhpur, 80 km from Khimsar, is the largest city in the entire Marwar region.
Jodhpur is one of the most famous tourist places in Rajasthan.
Important tourist places in the city are the Umaid Bhawan Palace, Mahendragarh Fort, Jaswant Thada and Mandore Gardens.
Osian is 27 km from Khimsar and was a well-known trading center between the 8th and the 12th centuries.
The most celebrated temples of Osian are the Surya or Sun Temple and the Sachiya Mata Temple.
Nagaur is 43 km from Khimsar, it is famous for the Cattle Fair that is held every year in the month of January.
The historicity of the Nagaur city can be traced back to 4th century AD.
There is a huge fort, which has beautiful buildings including lavishly built palaces, mosques, temples, baolis or reservoirs, water systems, fountains, open terraces and pleasure gardens of the Mughal times.
The nearest airport to Khimsar is at Jodhpur, which is 80 km away; there are daily flights from Jodhpur to Delhi, Mumbai, Udaipur and Jaipur.
Built by Rana Kumbha in mid 15th century, Kumbhalgarh is the second most important bastion of Mewar, after Chittaurgarh.
Covering an area of 12 sq km, this fort fell only once to the army of Akbar and that too because the water supply of the fort was contaminated by the enemy forces.
The fort lies 1,100 meters above sea level and enclosed within its fortified ramparts are palaces, temples, fields, water sources and farms fully self-contained to withstand a long siege.
Kumbhalgarh provides an excellent view of the countryside where many fierce battles were fought; it also has its significance of being the birth place of Maharana Pratap. 
Like the rest of Rajasthan, Kumbhalgarh experiences really hot summers while winters are a bit colder with temperatures hovering between 11 - 25 degrees Celsius.
Perched atop the Aravallis, The Kumbhalgarh Fort is the second principal fortress after Chittorgarh.
Built by Maharana Kumbha in the 15th century, the fort extends over 12Km and encloses many temples, gardens and palaces.
Renovated in the 19th century The Kumbhalgarh Fort is accessible only by jeep from Kelwara through the seven gates.
Haldighati is the place where the famous battle between Rana Pratap and the massive forces of the Mughal Emperor Akbar was fought in 1576 AD.
Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary supports a rich wildlife such as the panther, sloth bear, wild boar, scientifically bred crocodiles and the four horned antelope.
In Kumbhalgarh Wildlife Sanctuary the most famous attractions are the flamingoes, cormorants, spoonbills and egrets which can be spotted during winters.
Muchhal Mahavira temple situated about 5Km from Ghanerao in the Kumbhalgarh sanctuary.
The distinctive feature of the Muchhal Mahavira temple is the statue of Lord Mahavira with a moustache. 
On the way to Kumbhalgarh lays the magnificent dam - the Rajsamand Lake.
The royal lake was built in 1660 AD by Rana Raj Singh, from here; one can have a spectacular view of the sunset with beautiful 'torans' or arches and 'chhatris' adorning the embankment.
The lake has a Rest House of the Irrigation Department on the embankment below, the Rest House has a beautifully laid out garden interspersed with exquisite sculptures excavated from the ruins nearby.
Celebration of the Gher Ghoomer festival before the Chamunda Devi Temple has been a tradition of the local tribes for the last six centuries.
Colorful crowds from all the surrounding villages congregate at this place to celebrate the festival with much enthusiasm.
One can reach Kumbhalgarh by road from Udaipur (84Km) and Ranakpur which is 18Km from Kumbhalgarh.
Many Rajasthan Roadways passenger and deluxe buses pass through Kumbhalgarh from Ajmer, Pushkar, Jodhpur and Ajmer.
The nearest railhead is in Ratlam (Madhya Pradesh) which is 80Km from Kumbhalgarh and is connected with all the major cities of the country.
Mount Abu was described by someone in the 1930s as "a sort of Shimla of Rajputana", a small colonial hill station set, surprisingly, in the deserts of Rajasthan. 
Once the tranquil hilltop retreat of meditating rishis, Mount Abu was considered to be a holy spot, inhabited by no less than 330 million different gods and goddesses.
Then in the early 1800s Mount Abu was developed into a hill station where British officials from the hot, dusty plains of Rajasthan could seek refuge during the summer months, among the eucalyptus forests and oleanders. 
Charming English country cottages were built around the Nakki Lake, and as time passed it became a British enclave - the official summer capital, where the Chief Commissioner for Rajputana would move with his entourage for two months each year, from his administrative capital in Ajmer.
As a result, most of the Rajput maharajas followed suit, building palaces for themselves here, and each summer Mount Abu saw a giddy social whirl, with cricket, golf and dancing at the Rajputana Club -- and much political intrigue at the British Residency.
This was where the maharajas did all their secret wheeling and dealing with the Chief Commissioner - as it was much more discreet here than to visit him publicly at his administrative capital in Ajmer.
Today, while the surrounding hills, with their waterfalls and bamboo and eucalyptus groves are still extremely charming, Mount Abu itself has become an overcrowded and gaudy little town.
If you can imagine an Indian version of Las Vegas and Disney World rolled into one, this would probably be Mount Abu.
Mount Abu’s bazaars perhaps are fascinating as a kind of "living museum of contemporary Indian kitsch".
The temples of Dilwara, of course, simply have to be seen, but, in addition, some of the old palaces at Mount Abu make interesting viewing, like the Bikaner Palace - where the redoubtable Maharaja Ganga Singh of Bikaner used to come each year, with a retinue of 400 people.
The state of Maharashtra is one of the largest in India.
Most of the state stands on the high Deccan plateau which stretches east some 800 km. from the Western Ghats.
Historically this was the main centre for the Maratha Empire, which defied the Mughals for so long, and which, under the fearless rule of Shivaji, carved out a large part of central India as its domain.
Maharashtra's many inland and coastal forts are a legacy of Shivaji and, to a lesser extent, the portuguese.
Visit the Bibi-ka-Maqbara, built by Aurangazeb as a Tomb for his wife, an imitation of the Taj Mahal, A Himroo factory where beautiful cotton and silk fabrics are produced, Panchakki - a water- mill with in which there is a Tomb of a Muslim Saint.
Ajanta caves are 106 kms from Aurangabad and date back to the 2nd century BC.
The 30 rock hewn caves are adorned with Buddhist sculpture and the frescoes portray in epic form the religious and secular life through eight centuries. 
Ellora caves encompass 34 rocks cut shrines representing Buddhist, Hindu and Jain art. 
Mumbai's International Airport is at Sahar (30 kms) & Domestic Airport is at Santacruz (26 kms). 
Most of the International Airlines, Indian Airlines, & many other private airline touch Mumbai & connect Mumbai with the major cities of India and abroad. 
Mumbai is the Headquarters for both, Western and Central Railways and regular train services connect Mumbai with all the major towns & cities in India. 
Mumbai is connected by good motor able road to Pune, Nasik, Mahabaleswar, Shirdi, Aurangabad, Vadodara, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, and Calcutta.
Damania Shipping Pvt. Ltd. operates a regular catamaran service between Mumbai, Ratnagiri and Goa. 
Journey time between Mumbai and Goa is approximately 8 hours. 
The city that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb built in the dusk of his empire is Aurangabad, the city that is base to the marvels of man - the Ajanta and Ellora caves. 
Situated in Maharashtra, Aurangabad today is a thriving industrial metropolis and apart from being the jump-off point for Maharashtra's most celebrated tourist attraction, it also merits as one of the cleanest cities in the country.
With a lot to offer the avid tourist including incredible Deccan Mughal architecture, the most pleasant feature of Aurangabad is its inhabitants.
Retaining the charms and mannerisms of the Nizams, they are courteous, polite and extremely helpful.
If the Ajanta and Ellora caves figure in your travel plans, as they should, make it a point to spend a couple of days in Aurangabad and you will not be disappointed.
You could also visit Aurangabad between October and March, when the weather is pleasant.
Modelled on the Taj Mahal, Aurangabad's Mughal tomb garden was built by Prince Azam Khan in memory of his mother, Begum Rabia Daurani.
Purwar Museum, wonderful personal collection is housed in a lovely haveli and is the work of a retired doctor Mr. Purwar.
Small and not given to the excesses that other museums are given to, the exhibits here include a 500-year-old chain mail suit, an 800-year-old Paithani sari and a copy of the Koran hand painted by Aurangzeb.
About 107 kms from the city of Aurangabad, the rock cut caves of Ajanta nestle in a panoramic gorge, in the form of a gigantic horseshoe.
Among the finest examples of some of the earliest Buddhist architecture, cave paintings and sculptures, these caves comprise Chaitya Halls, or shrines dedicated to Lord Buddha and Viharas or monasteries used by Buddhist monks for meditation and the study of Buddhist teachings.
The paintings that adorn the walls and ceilings of the caves depict incidents from the life of Buddha and various Buddhist divinities.
Among the more interesting paintings are the jakata tales, illustrating diverse stories relating to the previous incarnations of the Buddha as Bodhisattva, a saintly being who is destined to become Buddha.
Occupied for almost 700 years the caves of Ajanta seem to have been abandoned rather abruptly.
Ajanta has been designated as a World Heritage Site, to be preserved as an artistic legacy that will come to inspire and enrich the lives of generations to come.
The viewpoint from where John Smith first glimpsed the caves provides a magnificent sight of the U-Shaped gorge and its scenic surroundings.
The cave temples and monasteries at Ellora, excavated out of the vertical face of an escarpment are 26 kms north of Aurangabad.
Extending in a linear arrangement, the 34 caves contain Buddhist Chaityas, or halls of worship, and Viharas, or monasteries, Hindu and Jain temples.
Spanning a period of about 600 years between the 5th and the 11th century A.D., the earliest excavation here is of the Dhumar Lena (cave 29).
The most imposing excavation is, without doubt that of the magnificent Kailasa Temple (cave 16), which is the single largest monolithic structure in the World.
Ellora known as Verul in ancient times, it has continuously attracted pilgrims through the centuries.
Aurangabad seems to have more than its share of secondary monuments and sights.
3 kms north of the city, the caves have been carved out of a steep spur of the Sahyadri Range and a great view of the city, serenity and a piece of history are what you get to take back from here.
The Aurangabad caves are Buddhist and are divided into two groups by the archaeological survey of India as the western and eastern caves.
13 km away from Aurangabad lays one of the country's most impressive and majestic forts Daulatabad, commanding the view from atop a pyramid-shaped hilltop.
It is an unusually large fortress and is surrounded by huge, imposing grey, granite walls and has a central, slender pink minaret called the Chandminar - a Victory tower built in 1435 and is right on top of the hill, originally known as Devagiri or the Hill of the Gods.
In 1294, the Delhi Sultans stormed Daulatabad and looted its wealth, paving the way for eccentric Mughal ruler Mohammed bin Tughlaq, who took over the fort in 1327.
Mohammed bin Tughlaq renamed it Daulatabad, the City of Fortune and made it his southern military operations base.
Khuldabad is a walled city also known as Rauza and famed as the 'Heavenly Abode'
The courtyard of the Alamgir Dargah (shrine) is also the burial spot of the last great Mughal emperor, Aurangzeb.
Aurangzeb chose Khuldabad as his final resting place because the mausoleum of Sayeed Zain-ud-din, a Muslim holy man lies next door.
The Robe of the Prophet, which is considered an important relic lies here and revealed to the public once a year, on the 12th day of the Islamic month of Rabi-ul-Awwal.
Grishneshwar Mandir, Rani Ahilyabai Holkar is said to have built this Shiva temple in the 18th century in small village of Grishneshwar, which lies west of the caves.
There are no rules banning non-Hindus from the temple and allowed to join the queue for a glimpse of the deity. 
An ancient town that lies 56 km south of Aurangabad, Paithan is renowned for its famous Paithani silk saris.
The beautiful 6-yard Paithani sari is woven with pure silk yarn and gold thread (drawn from pure gold).
It is a matter of pride that this 2000-year-old art of weaving continues, with families passing on their creative skills to younger generations.
A heavy brocade Paithani takes at least 6 months to complete and costs over Rs 50,000, while an ordinary Paithani sari takes about a month to complete and costs between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000.
The State weaving centre has lovely Paithani wall pieces as well.
The third week of March every year, Aurangabad dons the mantle of host and gears up for an Ellora Festival of music and dance.