Some archaeologists believe that a nerve centre of Srivijaya could be Chaiya in Surat Thani Province, since a number of Srivijaya artifacts and architecture have been unearthed there.
Thailand has 96 national parks, 100 wildlife and non hunting sanctuaries and 65 forest parks, which together make up a full 13 percent of land area.
The park system, managed by the Royal Forestry Department, provides the visitor with easy access to the country’s nature reserves, from the mountain pine forest of the North to the southern rainforests to the spectacular coral and marine life off both coasts.
Most of the parks are accessible by road, offer simple accommodation and charge a small admission fee.
In the larger ones such as Khao Yai, rangers can be hired as guides for long treks.
Wildlife sanctuaries are not tourism areas, however, so visitors must bring food and camping gear and observe the no disturbance rules set up to protect the animals.
Khao Yai is a major bird watching hub, being home to rare species including all four species of hornbill: the great, wreathed, oriental pied and brown.
Chiang Mai is northern capital, is on important bird watching destination.
Doi Inthanon, The highest peak in Thailand at 2,565 metres above sea level, froms the southernly end of the Himalayan range and provides a home for 364 species of birds, many of them not seen elsewhere in the country.
In the South, the narrow, peninsula  of Prachuab Khiri Khan and its neighbour Phetchaburi offer an attracitive mountain and sea combination.
the twin beach resorts of Hua Hin and Cha-am, and two large havens for wildlife, Sam Roi Yot and Kaeng Krachan National Parks.
SamRoi Yot (Three Hundred Peaks) National Park has sandy beaches, caves and mangrove forests and provides a home for 300 species of birds.
Kaeng Krachan is the largest national park Its birdlife includes 250 species, among them the great hornbill and the grey peacock.
Kaeng Krachan also offers abundant hiking delights wildlife, birds and lush jungle along the trail to Tho Tip Waterfall, which takes about three hours.
Linked to the health-and-holiday concept is the promotion of long-stay visitors, with is mainly targeted at getting retirees from countries that have harsh winters and a higher cost of living to stay for extended periods in Thailand, where it is both warmer and less expensive.
Thailand owes much of its international popularity to the remarkable variety of its natural attractions. On offer is a tremendous choice of settings – blissful beaches and islands, rugged hills and jungles, teaming rivers and waterfalls. 
Now a related product of this diverse environment, the country's rich natural healing heritage has started to attract a new generation of discerning tourists.
Longer stays are the order of the day as visitors seek not just to experience these healthy ways fleetingly but to absorb maximum benefits over an extended period, while at the same time experiencing the country's history and culture at a deeper level.
Once the process of rejuvenation and enlightenment starts to bear fruit, the logic of making this choice becomes beautifully apparent and quite irresistible.
Enjoy the healthy Thai food and learn the art of Thai cooking during your visit.
Enjoy the benefits of traditional Thai massage or learn the techniques for yourself at numerous resorts and spas, as well as the famous Wat Po in Bangkok
 Enjoy traditional Thai healing in the form of a herbal steam bath designed to improve circulation, reduce stress and muscle fatigue, enhance the respiratory system, ease allergies and cure skin ailments. 
Meditate your way to health and happiness during your visit to Thailand.
Rejuvenate your body, mind and spirit in a distinctively Thai atmosphere at the finest of spas.
Take up yoga and achieve harmony of mine, body and spirit.
Experience the rejuvenating power of the 4,000 -year-old Chinese art of acupuncture, a technique that awakens the body's self-healing responses and restores the balance of yin and yang.
Experience the holistic healing power of aromatherapy and wave good-bye to negative energies and depression.
Pamper yourself with all kinds of beauty treatments, modern and traditional, at amazing Thai prices.
Learn the Thai language for a better understanding of the country and its people, so making your long-stay more fun and meaningful.
By road to Chachoengsao to pay homage to the revered Luang Pho Sothon Buddha image at Wat Sothon Wararam Worawihan in Thailand.
Visit Wat Pho Bangkhla to see the fruit bats living there. After lunch, by road to Prachin Buri for inspection of Phraya Abhaibhubet Hospital's facilities. Dinner and overnight at Prachin Buri.
Spent the whole day taking part in the various health programmes or enjoy Thai massage and herbal sauna facilities at Phraya Abhaibhubet Hospital and dinner and overnight in Prachin Buri.
Depart for Sa Kaeo, stopping to buy silk items at Kabin Buri. Lunch at Aranyaprathet on Cambodian border, followed by shopping at Rong Kreua market
Briefing and visit to academy's museum enjoy orning of activities from tower parachute jumps to biking, canoeing and swimming and lunch at the clubhouse. Depart for Bangkok.
A wealth of shopping  opportunities  await  visitors,  and  bargains  abound  throughout  the  Country  in  traditional  handicrafts,  textiles,  gems,  jewellery  and  antiques,  as well  as  more  contemporary  items.
it  isn’t  only  the  variety  of  creatively  designed  and  meticulously  crafted  products  that  so  captivates  the  traveller.
The  shopping  experience  itself  is  a  pleasure  in  its  own  right  as  one  explores  from  upscale  shopping  malls  and  department  stores  to  high  streets  and  back  streets  and  bustling  markets.
What’s  more,  frequent  promotions  involving  definitively  Thai  variations  on  myriad  product  themes  hold  out  the  prospect  of  acquiring  a  better  selection  for  a  lower  outlay.
foreign visitors to Thailand can often look forward to receiving a further price reduction in the form of a healthy tax refund on department; the perfect way to round off a memorable stay.
As part of the year-end shopping celebrations, TAT, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, and members of the private sector representing hotels, department stores, shopping malls and other business interests around Bangkok’s famous Ratchaprasong Intersection have joined hands to make the area a colorful shopping street with bright, fresh and fun look decorations.
The harsh lines of the buildings are softened with trees, plants, landscaping, and a touch of Thai to make the area aesthetically appealing.
Street furniture and new lighting are installed and sidewalks smoothly paved with all the shopping malls in and around the intersection linked by covered elevated walkways.
There are shopping discounts, special offers and festive celebrations as well as leisure and entertainment extravaganza held throughout the period. 
The highlight is the “Bangkok Countdown” held in front of the Central World Plaza on New Year’s Eve in which Thai and foreign visitors gather and join the rest of the world in welcoming the New Year.
Meditation is found in some form or another in all major religious traditions but in Buddhism it is integral to the path to enlightenment. 
The practitioner trains his or her mind so that it can understand the four-points that form the core of the Buddha’s teaching: suffering, what causes it, the end of suffering, and the path to that end.
Consequently, the art of meditation is a highly developed one in Thailand and One doesn’t need to be a Buddhist, or even be interested in Buddhism, to benefit from meditation.
A valuable training that can be applied to daily life, it greatly helps concentration and can lead to a state of peace and calmness, no matter where the meditation is performed.
There are two main branches in Buddhist meditation: Samatha (calmness, concentration) and Vipassana (insight), which stresses mindfulness in Thailand.
The techniques of Samatha meditation are many, some of them older than Buddhism itself. 
Amongst the most commonly practiced in Thailand is Anapanasati, or “mindfulness with breathing”. 
Mantra meditation, in which given words are repeated over and over to help focus the mind, is also widely practiced. 
Kasinas, where mediators concentrate on an object outside themselves, such as a crystal ball and candle flame, is yet another form.
Sati, or mindfulness, is the key to Vipassana meditation.
When the mind is untrained it is wide open to outside disturbances, and the objective is to be aware of what happens but not dwell upon it. So you train yourself to be aware of the body’s movement, the rise and fall of the chest as you inhale and exhale, the movement of the legs and feet as you walk, and your feelings and state of mind.
Walking, sitting and lying meditation are a few of the Vipassana techniques, and to avoid distractions as far as possible the retreats are usually held in isolated and peaceful surroundings.
Meditation teachings are widely available in Thailand for Thais and visitors alike, ranging from English language day classes in Bangkok through to intensive month-long Vipassana courses at remote retreats in the provinces.
Thailand’s cultural heritage was influenced by ancient India when the Indian merchants and scholars set foot and gradually settled in Southeast Asia some 2,300 years ago. 
Buddhist religion and popular myth are the most obvious examples and much of Thailand’s royal tradition is also rooted in Indian culture.
Buddhism is thought to have first come to Thailand at Nakhon Pathom, While Indian concepts of divine kingship first took root in the Khmer empire.
By the 6th century AD, many independent states were flourishing in the region we now know as Thailand. One of these was the Mon’s Dvaravati kingdom.
Mon dominance over central Thailand has been diminished by the power of an expanding Khmer empire. Eventually, The Khmer became so powerful that they ruled the entire area.
Only the southern isthmus where the Srivijaya civilization had taken root was unaffected to Indian culture.
Towards the end of the 13th century, Khmer power in this area waned and new kingdoms dominated by the Thai race developed, including the northern Lanna kingdom.
Beginning by nibbling away at the perimeter of the Khmer empire at Sukhothai and in Lanna some 700 years ago, the Thai race later established the glorious court at Ayutthaya, and eventually Bangkok.
Over the past centuries, many peoples, among them the Chinese, Arabs, Malays and Westerners, have contributed to Thailand’s cultural heritage.
Thailand’s majestic cultural heritage inherited over the past centuries was dominated or influenced by many kingdoms encompassing the area including the powerful Khmer.
The remains of their cultural heritage can still be seen in many places through out the  kingdom.
The best example of Khmer culture is at Phimai, some 60 kilometres northeast of Nakhon Ratchhasima.
The old temple stands in the middle of the modern town. The outlines of the old fortified town can still be traced
It was strictly rectangular in plan, as were all Khmer settlements, and it was made doubly secure by placing it on an artificial island. 
The nearby Phanom Rung and Muang Tham sanctuaries are also two good examples Khmer culture.
Other outstanding Khmer treasures in Thailand include the powerfully evocative sanctuary at Muang Singh in Kanchanaburi, and the imposing triple-spired strines at Lop Buri.
Davaravati culture was centred on the area between Nakhon Pathom, a littie- fortified town some 50 kilometers west of Bangkok, and UThong to the north.
Davaravati culture’s enduring emblem is Phra Pathom Chedi, the massive bell-shaped Buddhist shrine with its golden spire at Nakhon Pathom.
Buddhism is believed first to have been taught in Thailand. The chedi, at 120.45 meters, is the tallest Buddhist structure in the world.
Lanna Kingdom Founded by King Mengrai, the northern Lanna kingdom had an exciting mixture of cultures due to its diverse populations and mountainous location. 
The main division was between the farmers and townspeople of the valleys and the hill tribes of the valleys and the hill tribes themselves represent several very distinct ethnic stocks, so that a multitude of languages, customs, beliefs, architectures, diets, and styles of dress exist harmoniously side by side.
Sukhothai Kingdom, some 480 kilometers north of Bangkok, was the capital of the first truly Thai kingdom.
Sukhotha’s third king, the great Ramkhamhaeng, is credited with devising the Thai alphabet from ancient Mon and Khmer scripts.
sukhothai kingdom is credited with producing the most sublime religious art and sculpture ever seen in Thailand, and for manufacturing the most perfect pottery and Buddha images.
Sukhothai also developed the concept of the Thai town – set four squares on the plain and protected by triple walls and intervening moats.
Thais pattern was so successful in terms of defense (it allowed more wall forts) and flexibility to match the terrain that it was never abandoned.
Ayutthaya’s art and architecture was a delicate blend of Dvaravati, Khmer, Mon, Lawa and Khmer cultures.
The city site at the heart of the riverine system of the lower Chao Phrayabasin was carefully chosen to allow a moated trapezoid plan and a water-borne way of life.
Ayutthaya’s sister city, Lop Buri, just a short distance north. It shared in the capital’s splendour.
One of Thailand’s greatest kings, Narai built a palace there that can still be seen. It was these two glorious cities that Europeans first saw.
Ayutthaya’s  period, The golden age of Thai culture also produced the exquisite architecture and decoration at Bang Pa-in, a royal summer palace on the majestic Chao Phraya River just south of the capital, as well as the elegance and grace of Thai classical dance and theatre.
All that remains of 417 glorious years of Thai cultures are the ruins you can see today. They are now a World Heritage site.
Historical objects and sites are a testimony to every country’s civilization and cultural heritage.
Historical objects and sites are serve to Bridge the gap between past and present and instill in the people a sense of belonging and pride and the importance of cherishing their invaluable legacy.
In April 1987, the government officially opened Thailand’s first historical park, the Muang Sing Historical Park in Kanchanaburi.
Today, government of Thailand have been opened 10 historical parks– tree of which have received the honor of being designated World Heritage Sites.
The 10 historical parks are Muang Singh, Phanom Rung, Sukhothai, Si Satchanalai, Kamphaeng Phet, Sri Thep, Phimai, Ayutthaya, Phra Nakhon Khiri and Phu Phra Bat.
The 10 historical parks are the result of hard work of the Fine Arts Department in the excavation, renovation and landscaping for several decades.
Each of these 10 historical parks in now equipped with a tourist and information centre and provides qualified guides.
 Muang Sing Historical Park is one of the most important sites in the Khwai Noi River basin in Kanchanaburi.
 Muang sing Historical Park is prehistoric human skeletons have been discovered near the ancient city, together with metal tools, vessels and ornaments, bricks, foundations of Dvaravati period architecture and laterite ruins from the 13th century.
The remains of the ancient city comprise several layers of rectangular walls and a moat.
The annual festival within the historical park is the “Thin Buri Sri Chai Sing” featuring a light and sound show and classical dances.