Gilgit’s most prominent contribution to the area seems to be the Gilgiti cap worn throughout most of northern Pakistan.
To the north, legendary Hunza confirms its reputation as one of the world’s great mountain communities.
Like Chitral to the west, Hunza manifests its age-old-contact with Central Asia, the consequence of lying abreast of the Caravan routes that spread south from the all-important passes.
In a nation that is almost entirely Muslim, the Kafir are unique; they are Pagans (Kafir means infidel) with their own very original beliefs, customs and art forms.
During winter, heavy snow separate the valleys from the rest of the world for six months while in the summer, temperatures over 100 degrees are common.
In Skardu, one is immediately struck by the juxtaposition of sand dunes and show-capped peak.
Most of the trekking routes lies in the northern mountains of the Hindukush, the Karakorams and the Himalayas.
The Ministry of Tourism, Government of Pakistan, has defined trekking as walking below 6000 m. It has designated three zones for trekking; open, restricted and closed.
Foreigners may trek anywhere in open zone without a permit or services of a licensed mountain guide.
For trekking in restricted zone, foreigners must pay a fee of US$ 20 per person per trek to obtain a trekking permit from the Ministry of Tourism, Govt. of Pakistan Islamabad.
It also requires to hire a licensed mountain guide; buy a personal accident insurance policy for the guide and the porters and to attend mandatory briefing and de-briefing at the Ministry of Tourism, on the beginning and end of the trekking trip.
No trekking is allowed in closed zones which are the areas near Pak-Afghan border and near the Line of Control with Indian-held Kashmir.
For a list of treks in open and restricted zones, and to have a copy of latest trekking rules & regulations, please write to the Public Relation Officer, Ministry of Tourism, Government of Pakistan (Operation Section) 9th Floor, Green Trust Towers, Blue Area, Jinnah Avenue, Islamabad.
Trekking means the act of traveling on foot to a maximum height of six thousand meters (6000 M) with the purpose of sight-seeing and recreation at various natural and cultural sites in places where means of modern transport are either not available or are purposely not used.
The leader of party using treks in restricted area shall, on arrival in Rawalpindi/Islamabad, inform the Officer concerned in Tourism Division of their arrival.
The Officer concerned in Tourism Division would furnish him(The leader of party using treks in restricted area) relevant information on matters like insurance, purchase of rations etc., arrangement about special weather forecast by Radio Pakistan and other miscellaneous matters.
Party shall include in the expedition, as it member, at least one Liaison Officer/Mountain Guide to be detailed by the Government of Pakistan, travel cum trekking agency as the case may be.
A party shall for the transport of L.O./M.G. from Rawalpindi/Islamabad to mountains and back to Rawalpindi/Islamabad from the date he reports to a leader till the date a party is debriefed or returned to Rawalpindi/Islamabad.
In case a party is not in a position to accommodate a L.O./M/G. In the premises, a L.O./M.G. shall stay in a transit camp/hotel or any other suitable place and charge a party $ 10/- per day for accommodation and $ 10/- per day for food.
While in Gilgit, Skardu and Chitral, a L.O./M.G. shall stay with a party in the premises in which it is staying. In this case he shall share food, accommodation and transport with the party.
While in the mountains it may be difficult for a L.O./M.G. to live on the party’s food. If he so chooses he may have independent arrangements for food. In that case a party shall purchase for the L.O./M.G. such items of food and rations as he may indicate.
In no case a party shall advance money for the purchase of rations etc. To a L.O./M.G. Instead, it shall depute a member to go to the market with a L.O./M.G. and purchase for him the identified items by making payment to the shopkeepers.
In case, however, a L.O./M.G. feels strongly that non-acceptance of his advice would jeopardize the security of the country or would create law and order problems, he shall ask the leader to give him a note, in writing indicating.
If a L.O./M.G. thinks that danger to the security of the country would increase if activities of the party are not checked, he shall inform the nearest Police Station, by the quickest possible means and obtain police assistance in stopping the party from carrying out its mission.
On return to the district headquarters from the mountains, a L.O./M.G. shall lodge a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner, specifying therein, exact violation of the terms and conditions, or any other rule etc. He shall also send its copy to the Ministry of Tourism.
A L.O./M.G. shall extend maximum assistance to a party in making its mission a success. He shall not handle any cash nor undertake any financial transactions on behalf of a leader/party.
A L.O./M.G. shall act as an interpreter from the starting place of the trekking party till its return to district headquarters.
A L.O./M.G. shall maintain discipline among the porters and shall avoid the situation of ill-will or dispute among them.
A L.O./M.G. shall in the event of dispute or undesirable incident arising between any member of the party, porters and locals shall try to settle the depute by his own efforts.
A L.O./M.G. shall also inform by the quickest means the nearest Police Station any incident of the death or disability of any member of the party or a porter etc. He shall also inform the nearest Police Station about the commission of any serious crime, along-with a report to be sent to the Deputy
A party shall provide to a L.O./M.G. free of cost necessary equipment in order to enable him to perform his duties without any risk to his person.
Kit/equipment for L.O./M.G. shall be brought according to his measurements, which shall be sent with the permission letter.
The question of supply of kit/equipment to M.G. would be settled between party and the sponsoring agency.
A party shall also provide to porters standard kit/equipment, free of cost.      
No party shall be allowed to proceed to its destination if the kit/equipment provided by it to L.O./M.G. porters is found incomplete or sub-standard in quality. Before leaving Rawalpindi/Islamabad, a L.O./M.G. shall satisfy himself that the kit/equipment is complete and of required standard,
A party shall be at liberty to ask for the return of the kit/equipment given free of cost to L.O./M.G. and porters after completing its mission
Porters engaged for 7 days or less shall be paid 50% of the daily wages for the said period on the day they are engaged and the remaining 50% shall be paid on the day they are discharged.
Porters engaged for a period of more than 7 days shall be paid 50% of the daily wages for a week on the day they are engaged and the other half shall be paid at the end of the said week.
In addition to daily wages, a party shall provide to a porter free rations money in lieu of rations, as fixed by the Government, from the day he is engaged till the day he is discharge.
Similarly, because of forced halts on bad weather days a party shall pay to a porter full daily wages and rations or rations money in lieu thereof.
A porter shall be insured for a sum of Rs.50, 000/-(Rupees fifty thousand) only.
In case of partial disablement, the amount of compensation shall be proportionate to the percentage of disablement as declared by aw Civil Surgeon.
Insurance cover, shall be provided by the trekking party through a Pakistani company and the Tourism Division shall help a party in getting this facility in Pakistan, if so requested.
A party, shall be accompanied by a qualified physician/surgeon who shall also pay due professional attention to L. O. /M. G and porters.
If, however, a party comprises of 5 or less than 5 persons and is not in a position to brig a physician/surgeon as its member, then the said party shall bring a qualified first-aid specialist as one of its members.
A l. O. /m. G and porters shall become entitled to free medical treatment from the party’s surgeon/physician from the date they report to a party till the date their services are no longer required.
In case of sickness/injury of a L. O. /M. G. Detailed by Pakistan Army, Travel Agency leader of a party shall immediately inform the nearest Army Formation/Deputy Commissioner.
In case a L. O. /M. G is so sick as to be unable to walk he shall be transported to the nearest jeepable point by engaging porters, from there he shall be sent to a hospital of his entitlement in a jeep and the payment for this transportation shall be made by the party.
If in the opinion of the leader/physician/Surgeon the sickness/injury is likely to aggravate if the L. O. /M. G is transported by porters/jeep to the nearest hospital then the Deputy Commissioner of the area shall be contacted to arrange for a helicopter for evacuation of Liaison Officer/Mountain Guide.
If in the opinion of a physician/surgeon evacuation of a sick/injured porter from the mountains to a hospital in a District headquarters like Gilgit, Skardu or Chitral is necessary then the party shall pay for his evacuation by a helicopter of other means. The decision of the leader about evacuation etc. Shall be final.
In case a L. O. /M. G feels that a porter is very sick and is not being evacuated, he shall ask the leader to arrange for his evacuation.
During sickness/Injury in the mountains and hospitalization, a party shall pay half of the daily wages to a porter till the date he leaves the district headquarters for Rawalpindi/Islamabad.
Medical facilities including surgical operations etc. Are generally provided free of cost in Pakistani hospitals.
Aerial photography of mountains/speaks enroute to Northern Areas and Chitral is allowed after seeking permission from Captain of an aircraft.
Subject to above a party visiting the zone (i.e. 10 mile belt and 30 mile belt of Pakistan border with foreign countries) may take photographs/make films under the direct supervision of a L. O. /M. G.
A l. O. /m. G. Shall inform a party of the objects which are allowed to be photographed/filmed.
  Permission to photography is subject to the conditions that a party shall supply to the Government of Pakistan, free of cost, and freight, one copy/print of a film of academic interest/commercial film made and one set of photographs taken.
In case of accident/death of a member of a party, the leader shall notify the L. O. /M. G. Who shall report the matter to the nearest police station and get in touch with Deputy Commissioner of the area for any assistance that may be felt necessary.
If any assistance from the Pakistan Army is needed, the L. O. /M. G. Shall so inform the Deputy Commissioner who shall arrange such assistance.
If a helicopter is needed, a Deputy Commissioner shall arrange for the same on payment basis, but the party will have to a bear the expenses.          
In case of death of member, a L. O. /M. G. Shall obtain necessary death certificate from the local Deputy Commissioner before leaving the area.
In case of accident/death of a low/high altitude porter, action shall be taken on the above lines. In addition, a   L. O. /M. G. Shall obtain from the Civil Surgeon concerned a certificate of his/their disablement/death for insurance purposes.
Heli Safaris to the roof of the World – A great opportunity for those who have limited time but still like to have a bird’s eye view of Pakistan’s Northern paradise.
Fairy Meadows – The last mountain wilderness of the Himalayas, lying under the shadow of Nanga Parbat (8,126 m), waiting for you to explore by helicopter.
Trango Towers – It is a freestanding shaft culminating in the Trango Group, located on the left of Baltoro Glacier.
Trango Towers is the highest granite tower and considered to be the finest rock pinnacle in the world.
Concordia –This chaotic jumble of ice and rocks looks like an amphitheater rimmed by ice streams descending from four highest mountains of the Karakorams (K-2, Gasherbrum-I, Gasherbrum-II and Gasherbrum-IV).
Chitral, an area which was focus of the “Great Games”, at the turn of the 19th Century, is a land of ancient forts, rivers, springs and unique culture.
The valleys of Brir, Rambur and Bamburet are the home of the only pagan tribe – Kalash, ‘the wearers of black robes’.
The mighty Himalayas, the rugged Karakorams, the magnificent Hindu Kush and the mysterious Pamirs congregate along the far Northern frontiers of Pakistan to form an awesome natural bastion along its borders with India, China, Afghanistan, the Central Asian Republics and Russia.
In fact, Pakistan’s towering Northern frontiers bestow upon this country the most endowed mountain region on Earth, making it the only country to boast of literally ALL of the highest mountain ranges of the World.
Pakistan International Airlines offers, perhaps the most unique Air Safari on Earth: a grandiose flight into the ultimate realm of the mountains! It is a flight through a virtual forest of literally hundreds of over 7000 meter peaks, inclusive of five that fall into the 14 highest mountains of the world that are over 8,000 meters.
The second highest mountain, the majestic K-2, the ninth highest Nanga Parbat, universally dubbed “the killer mountain”, on account of its forbidding reputation in the mountaineering community, the 11th highest Hidden Peak, the 12th highest Broad Peak and the 13th highest Gasherbrum-II, are all part of this amazing region.
Richard Travithick produced the first locomotive by bringing the locomotive and railway invention together in 1804.
Britishers brought locomotive technology to the Subcontinent and in order to augment their defence to stop the Russian invasion on India, a 42 kms long Khyber Railway lines was built by them in 1920s from Peshawar to Landi Kotal at an enormous cost of 6 million Rupees.
The train coaches are pulled and pushed by two 1920s vintage oil fired steam engines to climb 1200 meters through 34 tunnels and 92 bridges and culverts.
At one point the track climbs to 130 meters after a journey of 1.4 kilometers
A section of the track is shaped like a W and the train has to move in changing directions.
The tribal people travelled free as part of the contract agreed upon when they allowed the British to build the railway through their territory.
The Beaver State, Webfoot State, Oregon's name is a mystery.
Oregon is located on the Pacific Northwest and is bordered by Washington on the north, Idaho (east), Nevada & California (south), and the Pacific Ocean (west).
The highest elevation is Mt. Hood in Clackamas-Hood River counties at 11,239 feet while the lowest elevation is the Pacific Ocean at sea level.
The highest temperature recorded was 119° while the lowest was -54°
National Parks & Monuments include Crater Lake, John Day Fossil Beds, Oregon Caves, Newberry.
Spanish and English sailors are believed to have sighted the Oregon coast in the 1500s and 1600s.
Capt. James Cook, seeking the Northwest Passage, charted some of the coastline in 1778.
In 1792, Capt. Robert Gray, in the Columbia, discovered the river named after his ship and claimed the area for the U.S.
In 1805 the Lewis and Clark expedition explored the area. John Jacob Astor's fur depot, Astoria, was founded in 1811.
Disputes for control of Oregon between American settlers and the Hudson Bay Company were finally resolved in the 1846 Oregon Treaty, in which Great Britain gave up claims to the region.
Oregon's nickname, the Beaver State, harks back to the early years of the 19th century. 
Fur hats were fashionable at that time, in northeastern cities, and Oregon's streams were an important source of beaver.
With competition fierce among the fur companies for control of the western lands, adventurous trappers, called mountain men, became the first white people to know the region well.
Later, when the rage for beaver hats had passed and Oregon's beaver supply was all but exhausted, the mountain men showed the early pioneers a route they had picked out in their trapping years.
Known as the Oregon Trail, it took thousands during the 1840s to the fertile Willamette Valley, where wheat, fruits, and vegetables thrived.
Settlers were also drawn to other parts of the state, where a profitable timber industry later developed around Oregon's bountiful supply of Douglas fir trees.
Oregon became the 33rd State to Unite under America on February 14, 1859.
Whites make up 86.6 percent of the population while Asians are 3 percent percent.
Blacks, most of whom live in Portland, account for 1.6 percent of the state's population.
Native Americans, many of whom live in or near the Warm Springs, Umatilla, Siletz, and former Klamath reservations, constitute 1.3 percent of the population; Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders are 0.2 percent; and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity are 7.3 percent.
Hispanics, who may be of any race, are 8 percent of the people.