Patan city is famous for its architectural wonders built during the Solanki dynasty.
Patan is an important weaving centre for geometrically patterned Patola Sarees.
Gujarat can really boast of a rich variety of wild and rare fauna.
Gir forest is the only place in the world, outside Africa, where the lion can be seen in its natural habitat.
Baroda was once the capital of the princely Gaekwads, and today is a graceful city of palaces, parks, temples and museums. 
Surat is known for its textiles, zari work, and diamond cutting and polishing industry. 
Along the coastline, Dandi has been known as the salt centre and it gained a place of pride after the famous Dandi March Satyagraha, in 1930, by Mahatma Gandhi.
Literally the abode of the serpents, Saputara is Gujarat's best known hill resort offering breathtaking views of the sunrise and sunset.
Palitana is the architectural grandeur of nearly 863 Jain temples on the Shetrunjaya Hills, have few parallels.
These temples, dedicated to various Jain Saints and Deities, is an important place of pilgrimage on the Jain circuit.
Dwarka, the ancient sacred city, on the edge of the Saurashtra peninsula was once the capital of Lord Krishna's empire where he had shifted from Mathura thousands of years ago.
The main attraction in Dwarka is Dwarkadhish Temple. 
Bhavnagar is known for Gandhi Smriti, an institution built in memory of Mahatma Gandhi.
To the west of Bhavnagar, situated at the base of Girnar hills is Junagarh, its special claim to fame is the rock edicts of Emperor Ashoka, dating back to 250 BC.
Once the royal summer retreat of the pleasure loving Nawabs of Junagadh, the imposing Chorwad palace and the lovely expanse of beach before it combine to make Chowrad unique.
Just 125 kms along the coastline from Chorwad lays Ahmedpur Mandvi, unusual beach resort designed as a traditional ethnic Saurashtrian village. 
Jamnagar was built by the Jadeja Rajputs, Known as jams, as their capital in the 16th century. It is famous for its lake which is surrounded by two buildings called Kotha Bastion and Lakhota Palace.
The Royal Orient is an experience in itself, on one of the most exotic trains in the world which takes travelers back in the age of Maharajas. 
International and Domestic airlines connect Ahmedabad to Bombay, Delhi and major cities of India.
Ahmedabad is linked to Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta, Chennai & other major cities in India by rail.
Ahmedabad is also connected by National and State Highways to major cities in India.
Local transport within the city is provided by city bus service and taxis can be hired from the airport, railway station or through hotels and travel agencies. 
Ahmedabad was named after the Sultan Ahmed Shah, who built the city in 1411.
Also called the "Manchester of the East", today, Ahmedabad is one of the most highly industrialized cities of India.
Historically, Ahmedabad was a major base camp during the Indian freedom struggle.
Mahatma Gandhi built the Sabarmati Ashram on the outskirts of the city, from where he guided India to freedom.
Today Ahmedabad, more than any other Indian city represents non-violence and peace and it is also the textile city of India.
Though the city has developed more as a business and commercial centre, it also holds attraction as a centre for the study of Indo-Saracenic architecture, a style that fuses elements of Hindu and Islamic architecture.
The exquisitely carved wooden mansions are beautiful examples of the craftsmanship of the time.
Although it is no longer the capital of Gujarat, Ahmedabad remains the second largest industrial city in western India.
Ahmedabad's climate is hot and humid and the temperature during summer months soars to 45 degrees and in winter dips as low as 5 degrees.
The NC Mehta Museum houses a spectacular collection of miniatures from various Indian painting schools.
The Shreyas Folk Museum displays some of the finest examples of the traditional arts & crafts of Gujarat.
Bhuj has several brilliant facets that surprise the traveler who expects an arid, run-down scenario exuding apathy and fatalism in equal parts.
The bus from Morbi races across the causeway some six feet above the glutinous element and you have to admit that there is nothing so glorious for cooking the blood as mud stretching as far as the eye can see.
Bhuj turned out to be a happy municipal experience, where history was a bonus to the present, not, as is so often the case in modern urban sprawls, an escape from the mess.
The old palace at Bhuj retains the Gujarati flavor despite some extraordinary Oriental-Gothic additions alongside that seem to have been dreamed up by a Birmingham architect haunted by nightmares of Mussolini.
The temples of Bhuj, and even more so of Mandvi, are delightfully painted.
Mandvi was traditionally the port town for pilgrims to Mecca and today maintains an active sea faring image. 
Warangal in Andhra produces the most gruesome tea in all three worlds but fortunately it is served only in tiny steel thimbles.
In the Kutch museum is a ready introduction to the tribal art forms where unique embroidery is produced by humble women living in clay huts, themselves of outstanding beauty and ingenuity.
Haryana has a proud history, dating back to the Vedic age.
The state of Haryana was home to the legendary Bharata dynasty, which gave the name Bharat to India.
Kurukshetra, the scene of the epic battle between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, is situated in Haryana.
Haryana was made into a full fledged state on 1st November 1966 from the Hindi - speaking regions of Punjab state.
The state is located to the southeast of Punjab state and Chandigarh is the capital of both Haryana and Punjab states.
Most of the population of Haryana is engaged in agriculture yielding grain, sugar, oilseeds, and cotton.
Historically, Haryana goes back to Mahabharat times, for it was here, at Kurukshetra, that the war was fought.
On the Mahabharata war battlefield, Lord Krishna preached his divine message The Bhagavad Gita, to Arjuna.
Haryana has a network of 43 tourist complexes, named after birds.
These tourist complexes have been set up along the national/state highways and at districts, towns and at places around Delhi.
The internationally famous Surajkund Crafts Mela is held every year in the month of February, to promote Indian arts and handicrafts.
Dumdama is basically a lake surrounded by the enchanting Aravali Ranges and is popular for rock climbing, paragliding and ballooning.  
Sultanpur is essentially a bird watching place and one of the best things about it is that there aren't many trees to obscure the visitor's view of the lake, which is often called a jheel locally. 
Kurukshetra is one of the most sacred places for Hindus.
Kurukshetra’s soil is soaked with the blood and glory of the epic Mahabharata battle
From Kurukshetra came the kernel of Hindu belief and doctrine the message of the Gita, which Lord Krishna gave to a doubt-ridden Arjuna on the battlefield.
According to popular belief in name Kurukshetra comes from the pious king Kuru and his tribe.
Till its waters vanished into the ground, the holy river Saraswati is regarded to have flowed by Kurukshetra - and many Vedic hymns were composed along its banks.
Indian Airlines connect Chandigarh with Delhi, Jammu, Srinagar and Leh.
Chandigarh, the terminus of Northern Railway, is connected with Mumbai, Delhi, Kalka and other major cities in India.
Chandigarh is connected by good motor able roads with Amritsar 240 kms, Dehradun 230 kms, Delhi 248 kms, Shimla 117 kms, Kulu 279 kms, Bhakra 116 kms, Kasauli 77 kms, and Jammu 380 kms.
Regular bus services connect Chandigarh with Amritsar, Delhi, Dharamshala, Kulu, Manali, Nangal, Pathankot and Shimla.
The state of Himachal Pradesh came into existence with the partition of Punjab and Haryana in 1966.
Himachal Pradesh is essentially a mountain state - it takes in the transition zone from the plains to the high Himalayas and, in the Trans Himalayan region of Lahaul and Spiti.
Himachal Pradesh is a delightful state for visitors, particularly during the hot season.
High points for the visitors include Shimla, which used to be the 'summer capital' of British India and still one of India's most important hill stations.
The Kullu Valley is very beautiful - a lush, green valley with the sparkling Beas River running through it and the snowcapped Himalayan peaks forming the background.
Shimla at an altitude of 2,130 m is an utterly charming resort.
Shimla is the best loved hill station in India and has been a favorite since British troops set up camp here in 1819.
With the Mall and Ridge being main attractions, climbing beyond Scandal point and Ridge beyond Shimla a 2 kms walk takes you to the Jakhoo hill, with a panoramic view of Shimla and Hanuman temple. 
16 km from Shimla at 2,622 m Kufri is the mini hill station.
Kufri has long been famous for its ski slopes, and panoramic views where deep valleys and forests rise towards the lofty Himalayas, shrouded by un-melting snows.
Through thick cedar woods one can walk up to the Mahasu Peak, or examine the little zoo.
Dalhousie is a summer hill resort par excellence, founded by Lord Dalhousie in the British days in 1850 as a sanatorium.
 Dalhousie is situated 563 kms from Delhi and lies on the outer slopes of the Dhauladhar Range of the Himalayas.
Apart from its own considerable scenic attraction, Dalhousie is the gateway to Chamba, the valley of milk, honey, springs and streams.
A beautiful little hill resort, Dharamshala is 90 kms from Pathankot, lying on the other side of Chamba.
The Dharamshala town is built on a spur of Dhauladhar range, and varies from 1,250 m to nearly 180 m.
Kangra one of Himachal's beautiful valleys, rolls down the southern edge of the magnificent Dhauladhar range in gentle slopes covered with forests of pine, orchards, green tea gardens and terraced fields.
The Dhauladhars - the 'white ranges' rise upto 14,000 ft. from the valley floor like a massive wall providing a dramatic back drop to this soothing landscape.
Kangra is a little town located just 17 km away from Dharamshala, in one of the prettiest valleys of Himachal with its lush green terraces and orchards, overlooking a gushing stream the Banganga.
Once the ancient capital of a powerful hill state, Kangra was known for its magnificent temples and as a centre of the arts. 
At Kangra itself, a fort and some temples are the only remnants of its glorious past.   
77 km from Shimla and 35 km from Kalka, at 1,927 mts, is a quaint little town Kasauli that seems to live in a time warp that belongs to the last century.
Its colonial ambience is reinforced by cobbled paths, tiny shops, gabled houses with magnificent facades and scores of neat little gardens and orchards.
Kasauli is encircled by a mixed forest of Chir pine, Himalayan oak and huge horse-chestnut.  
One of the loveliest spot in the Himalayas, the Kulu valley is known as the valley of gods, evidence of this is the numerous temples.
Kulu offers a variety of scenic charms, from wooded glades to barren rocks with snow above the tree line.
Kullu is famous for its apple orchards, wooden temples, folk music and dances and their handsome hill folk.
Bhuntar gives access into the adjoining valleys of the Parvati and Sainj.
The Parvati Valley, named after the consort of Lord Shiva, is well known for Manikaran which is revered as a place of pilgrimage by Hindus and Sikhs.
Kasol, on the Parvati river, is an angler's paradise.  
At the end of the Kullu Valley, 32 km from Manali is the famous Rohtang Pass (3978 m) which offers some of the most spectacular views of the awesome Himalayas.
For centuries, the Rohtang Pass has been the gateway for trading routes to Lahaul, Ladakh and Central Asia.  
Visit the 450 year old Dhoongri Temple dedicated to Goddess Harimba with its exquisite and unique carvings, Tibetan Monastery, the majestic Beas River and Jagatsukh ancient capital of Manali.
Also visit the hot water springs of Vashist, the beautiful Brighu Lake, and other equally spectacular sights.  
Mandi town situated at the height of 750 m on Beas river is the gateway to Kulu valley and mainly serves as a travel crossroad as its name which means the market.
The town of Mandi, famous for its Shivratri, is rich in history and culture.
Mandi’s several old temples with fine stone carvings are noteworthy.