The ceremonial arch was built in 1927 to commemorate the visit of King.
Constructed in honey-colored basalt, the gateway was designed by George Wittet, inspired by 16th century Gujarat Style.
The changing light of thte rising and setting sun gives varied hues of gold, russet and pink to the imposing arch.
Historically, the Gateway holds greater sigbnificance as the last of the British troops left Independent India by sea, marched through its portals.
Founded by Sir Cowasjee Jehangir Reddy’s money, after who is named the earlier of the two structures, was designed by Sir Gilbert Scott.
Flanked by the High Court and the Old Secretariat, the buildings were completed in 1874.
Resplendent in a florid and highly decorative French Gothic style, the main building with its turrets and gabled roof has a large circular window, with its outer border originally made up of twelve stained glass skylights, depicting the signs of the zodiac.
This blue-basalt building in early English Gothic style was designed by Col. J.A. Fuller.
Two octagonal towers with their spiraled holding at their pinnacles two carved figures of Justice and Mercy are situated to the west of the central tower.
Built during the same period as the University, its importance is heightened.
His father, John Lockwood Kipling, was the Principal of the art school and under his tutelage, many local artisans received training. Some of their works were used to adorn the buildings being constructed in Mumbai during that period as sculptured panels and motifs.
One of the finest examples of high Victorial Gothic architecture, it is the headquarters of the Central Railways and is one of the finest railway stations in the world.
King George V, who was Prince of Wales, laid the foundation stone of this museum in 1905.
Situated near the gateway of India, it was designed in the Indo-Saracen style to commemorate the king’s first visit to India.
During the first World War, it was used as a hospital.
It was opened as a museum in 1923 and has three main sections art, archaeology and natural history.
One of the best museums in the country, it is a treasure house of art, sculpture, China, rare coins and old firearms and it also has a priceless collection of miniature paintings.
The glistering white marble dome crowning this building can be sighted from a distance as it lies nestled amidst a well-laid out garden.
Marve, the closest and the quietest are a lovely little fishing village.
It has some beautiful bungalows owned by Mumbai’s elite for weekend gateways.
Low hills along the beach offer you extraordinary views of sunrise and sunset.
Gorai and Manori, a little further away, are more crowded with revelers and are famous for all night beach parties.
A fifteen-minute ferry ride from Marve or Borivali takes you to Gorai and Manori.
Malad, a station on the suburban section of WR, is the nearest railhead.
Dahanu, a quite seaside town with a sprawling, uncluttered beach, is situated in Thane district.
Dahanu is lined with fruit orchards and is famous for its chickoos.
Accessible from Dahanu is Udawada- the ‘Mecca of the Zoroastrians’ – with a large, beautiful temple which houses their sacred fire.
An amazing fact, but true, this fire has been kept alive for almost a thousand years.
Dahanu Road is the nearest railhead, which is just 21/2 hours from Mumbai.
Assam the rich, green land of rolling plains and dense forests is the gateway to the north eastern part of India.
The mighty Brahmaputra river that has its origins in Tibet charts and has its majestic course through this state.
This mystic land of eternal blue hills and beautiful rivers is renowned for its tea, rich flora and fauna, the world famous one horned rhinoceros and other rare species of wildlife on the verge of extinction.
Barring Africa, there is perhaps no part of the world where such a variety of wildlife exists.
Situated between 90-96 degree East Longitude and 24-28 degree North Latitude, Assam is bordered in the North and East by the Kingdom of Bhutan and Arunachal hills.
Along the south lies Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram and Meghalaya lies to her South-West, Bengal and Bangladesh to her West.
Exotic denizens of the sylvan world add to the mystery and charm of this weird land.
Frolic of apes, graceful elephants, fluttering of wings & singing of birds, migratory birds flying into the hills, the majestic tiger enforcing his authority, all invite you to carry back home a little what the heaven is made of.
The rhino emerges as if from prehistory and treads the Kaziranga national park.
And who can forget lush green tea gardens which beckon you to have a cup of fresh tea and enjoy the enthralling music of life.
Kaziranga national Park, of Assam Tourism, The Kaziranga National Park is the only National Park in the State situated in central Assam with an area of 430 sq. km.
It is the home of the great Indian one horned Rhinoceros (Unicornis).
The landscape of Kaziranga is of sheer forest, tall elephant grass, rugged reeds, mellow marshes and shallow pools.
Kaziranga has a history of its own. Lady Curzon first heard about the Rhinos of Kaziranga from her British tea planter friend and came to Assam in 1904-05.
Although she could not see the animal, she spotted hoof prints with three toes and believed that such an animal did exist.
On her return, she persuaded Lord Curzon to do something to save this animal from total annihilation.
Guwahati has several places of historical interest.
Perhaps the biggest attraction is the Kamakhya Temple atop Nilachal hill, where the Goddess Kamakhya is worshipped and which commands a majestic view of the city and the river.
Guwahati is the commercial capital of the North east.
Its markets are busy and noisy and well stocked, especially with local handicraft and handloom. For handicraft item include the State Government departmental store, Pragiyotika at Ambari as well as many privately owned shops in Pan Bazar and Fancy Bazar, two of the main commercial markets, that sell a range of items- from muga silk to bel metal, cane work to woolen shawls and elegant Naga and Manipuri jackets.
Tezpur, known as Soniput (city of blood) of Puranic fame, is associated with the legend of princess Usha, the daughter of King Bana and prince Anirudha, the grandson of Lord Krishna for their eternal love and romance.
The great mythological war believed to have been fought between Hari (Lord Krishna) and Hara (Lord Shiva) and as a result the whole city was said to have been drenched in blood, hence the name.
Arunachal Pradesh, one of the most sparsely populated state of India, covers an area of 83743 sq. kms.
This region acquired an independent political status in January 20, 1972 when it was declared as a Union Territory under the name of Arunachal Pradesh.
The state of Arunachal Pradesh Bill was passed by the Parliament in 1986 and with effect from February 20, 1987 Arunachal Pradesh became the 24th state of Indian Union.
Arunachal finds mention in the literature of Kalika Purna and Mahabharata.
This place is supposed to be the Prabhu Mountain of the Puranas.
It was here that sage Parashuram washed away his sin, sage Vyasa meditated, King Bhishmaka founded his kingdom and Lord Krishna married his consort Rukmani.
It is a land of lush green forests, deep river valleys and beautiful plateaus.
The land is mostly mountainous with the Himalayan range along the northern borders crisscrossed with ranges running north-south.
These divide the state into five river valleys; the Kameng, the Subansiri, the Siang, the Lohit and the Tirap.
All these are fed by snow from the Himalayas and countless rivers and rivulets.
The weather and the climate of Arunachal Pradesh are quite distinct from the rest of the country.
The climate of the State is dominated by the Himalayan system and the altitudinal variations.
The climate is highly hot and humid at the lower altitudes and in the valleys covered by swampy dense forest particularly in the eastern section, while it becomes exceedingly cold in the higher altitudes.
Average temperature during the winter months range from 15 to 21 degree celsius and 22 to 30 degree celsius during monsoon.
Between June and August the temperature may go up to 40-42 degree celsius.
The railfall of Arunachal Pradesh is amongst the heaviest in the country.
The annual average rainfall in Arunachal Pradesh is more than 350 cm.
There are 26 major tribes and a number of sub-tribes inhabiting the area.
Most of these communities are ethnically similar, having derived from original Mongoloid stock but their geographical isolation from each other has brought amongst them certain distinctive characteristics in language, dress and customs,
Broadly, the entire population may be divided into three cultural groups based on their socio-politico-religious affinities.
The Monpas and Sherdak Pens of Tawang and West Kameng districts follow the Lamaistic tradition of Mahayana Buddhism.
Culturally similar to them are Membas and Khembas who lives in the high mountains along the northern borders, Khamptis and Singphos inhabiting the eastern part of the State are Buddhists of Hinayana sect.
They are said to have migrated from Thailand and Burma long ago and still using ancient scripts derived from their original homeland.
The second group of people of Adis, Akas, Apatanis, Bungnis, Nishis, Mishmis, Mijis, Thangsos etc., who worship the Sun and the Moon God, namely, Donyi-Polo and Abo-Tani, the original ancestor for most of these tribes.
Their religious rituals largely coincide with the phases of agricultural cycles.
They traditionally practice Jhuming or shifting cultivation, the third group comprises Noctes and Wanchos in the Tirap district.
These are hardy people known for their structured village society in which  the hereditary village chief still plays a vital role.
The Noctes also practice elementary form of Vaishnavism.
Itanagar is situated at the foothills.
The township is situated at 350 meters above mean sea level.
It comes administratively under Papumpare district.
The Nishis or Nishings is the major tribe in Itanagar area.
However, Itanagar can be called as mini India, as people from all over the country, live here in harmony.
AS a capital town, Itanagar is well connected with the rest of the country by road and air communications.
Pawan Hans provides helicopter service between Guwahati and Nnaharlagun(Itanagar), deluxe buses are available from Guwahati.
Itanagar is the capital of India’s largest North Eastern state.
Here one can find historical fort called Ita fort, dating back to the 14-15 centuries, after which it is names.
The capital houses the Rajbhawan; the official residence of the Governor has also many worth visiting places in and around Itanagar.
It is a beautiful picnic spot, 6 kms away from Itanagar; a green forest lake surrounded by primeval vegetation, orchid’s masses on tall trees, tree ferns provides a small taste of the magnificent forests of the state.
Consecrated by the Dalai Lama, the Buddhist temple, a beautiful yellow roofed shrine reflects the extensive Tibetan influence and provides good views of Itanagar and the surrounding countryside.
Jawaharlal Nehru State Museum provides a kaleidoscope of Arunachal Pradesh and one can see wood carvings, musical instruments, textiles, handicrafts and archeological finds, while a workshop in the Handicrafts Centre specializes in traditional cane manufacture.
Other important places of interest around Itanagar is Conyi-Polo Vidya Bhawan a Premier Publics School, North-Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology (Nirjuli) – a engineering institute providing innovative way of education, Arunachal University (Doimukh) and Government Piggery and Poultry Farm (Nirjuli), Indira Gandhi Park.
The name Chhattisgarh is not ancient and has come into popular usage in the last few centuries.
In ancient times the region was called Dakshin Kosala.
All inscriptions, literary works and the accounts of foreign travelers, made this region Kosala of Dakshin Kosala.
According to Hari Thakur, the contest between Jabalpur and Chhattisgarh for the name Mahakosala is settled beyond doubt in favor of Chhattisgarh in the light of available evidence.
Even during the region of the Mughals, it was called Ratanpur territory and not Chhattisgarh.
Apart from the mesmerizing dances, songs of Dadra, Pandwani, Karma, Panthi and Suva, the region has National parks/Sanctuaries and has places of archaeological and religious importance such as Sirpur, Rajim, Malhar, Sita Bengra, Jogibhatta, Deepadih, Dantewada and Dongargarh where tourists come automatically.
The ancient deposits of Chhattisgarh and Jain religion memorials are found at Malhar, Sirpur, Maheshpur and Arang.