Geographically, Jambi is located between 0o 45' - 2o 45' Northern Latitude and between 101o 10' - 104o 55' East Longitude.
Jambi Province is divided among 5 regencies and 1 municipality.with area of 44,800 sq km width
Jambi Humidity is about 83%. The rainfall ranges about 1,940 - 2,941 mm per year. The temperature is range between 22.5o C and 33.6o C.
A migration flows to this province is supported by the existence of heavy plantation exertion and transmigration program. In 1994, the total population was 214,507 people, with an average density of 40.1 people per Km2.
Compared to the average population growth amounted to 2.144% per year, this province is on the lower level with 1.21% per year during the 1990-1994 period.
Lampung province is located at the extreme of south of Sumatra is overlooked, over flown by most tourists.
In the past it was well known for its marvelous 'tapi' fabrics, some using real gold thread, and for its pepper. But today, it is the location from ambitious transmigration projects, resettling farmers from over-populated Java.
Lampung boasts volcanoes, wildlife reserve, megalithic remain and a superb coastline of deep-cut bays and wonderful beaches.
Lampung’s capital is Bandar Lampung, is made up of twin cities that is Teluk Betung and Tanjung Karang.
Way Kambas Nature Reserve is a 130,000 ha area of swamp and lowland forest with wild elephant, tapir and many other animals.
The name of Lampung province was taken from origin Lampungnese.
Before Indonesia became independent country, a resident led Lampung region and the status was as residency area (Residentie lampungche districten) with many afdeling (afdeling Teloek betoeng, afdeling metroand afdeling kotabumi).
The villages/old town with traditional living characteristic could be found like sukadana, menggala, kenali, liwa, blambangan umpu etc. A part of these town bacame the capital of district.
In the first of 2000 was 7 millions the population of Lampung Province. Among 10 district / town, the most population was in central Lampung with 1.901.630 and the density population was in Bandar Lampung city, 3.763 soul/km2.
Lampung province is located between 3o 45' and 6o 45' South Latitude and between 103o 40' and 105o 50' East Longitude.
The wide area of Lampung province is 33,307 sq km, whileAdministrativelly Lampung Province is divided among 4 regencies, 1 municipality and 1 administrative town with Bandar Lampung as its capital city.
The humidity of this province is various between 50% and 86%, and the rainfall is ranges between 2,000 and 4,000 mm per year. The temperature ranges between 20o C and 34o C.
The migration flow to Lampung province is supported by the existence of heavy plantation, fishery and industry.
In 1994, the total population of Lampung province was 6,200,306 people, with its average density of 196.8 people per Km2. Compared to the average national population growth amounted to 2.144% per year, this province was on the lower level with 2.12% per year during the 1990-1994 period.
Lampung society consists of two main groups, respectively has special traditional law. They are Peminggir traditional society and Pepadun traditional society.
Peminggir societies, such as, Krui, Ranau, Komering, and Kayu Agung society, live along the coast And, Pepadun society, who customarily conservative, such as, Abung (Abung Siwo Migo), Pubian (Pubian Telu Suku), Tulang Bawang (Migo Pak), Buai Lima (Way Kanan), and Sungkay Bunga Mayang, live in the inland.
North Sumatra is one of Indonesia's last surfing frontiers. "North Sumatra" consists of 5 islands or island groups: Hinako Islands, Nias, Telos and 2 other obscure island groups to the north.
North Sumatra receives similar swell to Mentawais and enjoys its peak swell season from May to September.
Despite Indonesia's reputation for hollow lefts, in North Sumatra right-handers are slightly more prevalent. While Lagundri Bay at Nias has been surfed for decades, it is the more obscure rights like Bawa (a Sunset-like right bowl that holds up to 15 feet) and Treasure Island (a long, hollow, mechanical right peeling for 200 meters) that have attracted the attention of late.
Throw a mix of hollow and bowl lefthanders into the picture like Asu, Afulu, the Machine, and many more obscure rights and lefts.
In contrast to the small island of Bali, North Sumatra province is large with one of the biggest lakes in the world, Toba Lake, at its navel.
The continuous mountain of Bukit Barisan, which extends from Aceh at the tip of Sumatra island to Lampung at the bottom of the island, guards the province on the west side, providing home for thick, tropical jungles and lush vegetations.
As you go down the western mountains towards the beaches of the east, mountain streams, strong rivers, and gorgeous waterfalls will accompany you.
Along the length of this province crosses Bukit Barisan Mountains with peaks of numerous volcanoes.
The land has thick virgin forests, lush vegetation, rice fields, mountain streams, rivers, waterfalls and sandy beaches.
It has a rich flora and fauna with an abundance of birds, butterflies, buffaloes, deer, mouse deer, orangutans and many other export commodities make North Sumatra one of the richest provinces in Indonesia, as it produces more than 30 % of Indonesia's exports.
The province offers the visitors, especially nature lovers, beautiful tropical panoramas, terraced rice fields, blue mountains, jungle covered hills, white sandy beaches, music, dance and folk arts.
Relative to Bali, North Sumatra has very heterogeneous ethnic groups, and thus, cultures. The people of the eastern coasts, also known as the Malays (Melayu) have markedly different traditions and culture from Batak highlanders who live around Toba Lake and Samosir Island.
Further south, the Mandailings and Angkolas, and Nias Island, have yet more flavors of traditions and culture. Besides them, there are several ethnic groups who live in Medan and other towns of North Sumatra.
Its largest groups are Chinese and Indian, who being naturalized Indonesian citizens. Other Indonesian tribes like Acehnese, Minangkabau, Javanese, etc also live in many parts here.
Each of the mentioned tribes as well as the ethnic groups has its own dialect, religion, beliefs, traditional customs, etc. Arts and cultures make this region, a paradise for social scientists.
Among the ancient Indonesian cultures, which can be seen at Samosir Island, are the centuries old tombs of Batak Toba kings and a stone-table with its benches, where the Siallagan chiefs formerly held meetings.
North Sumatra province has 70,787 sq km width. Geographically, it is located between 1o and 4o North Latitude and between 98o and 100o East Longitude.
North Sumatra Province is divided among 11 regencies, 6 municipals, and 3 administrative towns with Medan as its capital city.
Composed of coastal areas, lowlands, plateaus, and mountains. Humidity: Varies between 79% and 96%.Climate: As one of Indonesia islands, North Sumatra has rainfall of 1,100-3,400 mm per year. It temperature is range between 18o C and 34o C.
Historically, North Sumatra Province has a migration flow of population either from other provinces because of the existence of heavy plantation in this province or migration to other areas for studying and expanding business.
Since population mobility is high, there are multi ethnics on the community.
In 1994, the population density of North Sumatra Province reached 157 people per Km2. Compared to the average national population growth (2.144% per year), this province was on the lower level with 1.53% per year.
Waters of Riau archipelago are the backyard of native seafaring nomads who fish and trade for a living.
Riau’s traditional wooden sailing craft, called 'pinisi' still do the forested channels of these islands, along with other indigenous craft, fishing vessels and cargo ships which call at the archipelago's main town and Tanjung Pinang port.
Tanjung Pinang lies on the largest island of Bintan archipelago 
Today, Bintan is the latest hot spot of development in Indonesia's surging economy.
Barely an hour away from Singapore by ferry, tourist accommodation has begun to appear to take advantage of Tanjung Pinang’s gateway from it all appeal
Originally part of Riau Province, Riau Archipelago was split off as a separate Province in July 2004 with Tanjung Pinang as its capital.
Anambas Archipelago, located between mainland Malaysia and Borneo were attached to the new province named as Riau Archipelago.
By population, the most important Riau islands are Bintan, Batam and Karimun. Size wise, however, the sparsely populated Natuna Islands are larger.
Riau Archipelago with its thousands of island has plenty of scenic beaches and diving spots, among them Trikora on Bintan and Pasir Panjang on Rupat Island.
Pasir Panjang, on the northern side of Rupat facing to Malacca Strait, is stretched out natural beaches are also found on Terkulai and Soreh islands, about an hour's distance by boat from Tanjung Pinang.
One of the most popular beaches is Nongsa on Batam Island. From here one can see the Singapore skyline.
West Kalimantan is one of Indonesia Province, which has cope building in reach the aspiration for the sake of prosperity of its public.
The region unfold northerly straight to south along the length of more than 600 km and about 850 km from west easterly, broadly regional 146807 km (7,53 percentage of Indonesia wide or 1,13 wide Java island) and become the fourth widest Province after Irian, East Kalimantan and Central Kalimantan.
West Kalimantan area is as one of area, which common called as "A Thousand Rivers" province.
The nickname A Thousand Rive province, is suitable with its geographical condition, which has hundreds great and small rivers and is often navigated.
Some great rivers till now, is still be a main line for hinterland transportation, although land road infrastructure have been able to reach most of district, although partly small of West Kalimanta regions are water territory went out to sea, however West Kalimanatan has tens of big and small island (partly not dweller), which spread over along the length of Karimata Strait and Natuna Sea that is abutting on Riau Province region, Sumatera.
West Kalimantan Resident embraces various religions, like Islam, Catholic, Protestant, Buddha, Hindu and believe follower to the one supreme God.
Most of West Kalimantan resident works in agricultural sector, plantation, fishery and commerce.
West Kalimantan Province is formed based on the constitution Number 25 in 1956 determined that West Kalimantan region as autonomous area province with its capital in Pontianak and because the constitution applied since 1 Januaries 1957, hence the West Kalimantan Province anniversary is commemorated on that date.
Of the 17,000 islands that make up the archipelago of the Republic of Indonesia, Java has historically been considered the heartland.
Where Java has led-culturally, economically and politically down through the centuries, other regions have followed.
On Java, still the most densely populated island of Indonesia, there are five Provinces. West Java is the largest, with the greatest population, and, some would claim, with the most pride.
West Java Province is located at part of western Java Island.
The enchanting of Sunda land stretches from Sunda Strait in the west to the borders of Central Java in the east.
The West Java region is primarily mountainous, with rich green valleys hugging lofty volcanic peaks, many of which surround the capital of West Java province.
The history of West Java is a story of trade, spices, and the rise and fall of powerful kingdoms.
In the late 1500's the West Java region was ruled from mighty Cirebon, which still survives as a sultanate today, although a shadow of its former glory. West Java was of the first contact points in Indonesia for Indian traders and their cultural influences, and it was here that the Dutch and British first set foot in the archipelago.
West Java province has its own unique culture and language, both called Sundanese that is also used to call its people.
The ancient kingdoms of Tarumanegara, Pajajaran, Banten and Cirebon would make interesting studies for the student of archaeology.
Cirebon is located on the border between West and Central Java, having a mixed culture originating from the ancient Cirebon and Banten kingdoms, resulting in similar customs and dialects of the two people, although Banten is located at the extreme western part of the province.
West Java province its self, is formed based on the Constitution number 11/1950 on the establishment of West Java.
With the issuance of Constitution number 23/2000 on Banten Province, West Java Governor Assisting Territory I Banten was inaugurated as Banten Province with its territories comprising Serang Regency, Pandeglang Regency, Lebak Regency, Tangerang Regency and Mayoralty, and Cilegon Mayoralty.
After the change, at present West Java consists of 18 regencies, nine mayoralties, 584 districts, 5,201 villages and 609 sub districts.
The capital city of West Java province is Bandung city which is situated 180 km southeast of Jakarta. 
The city gamed fame in 1955 as the venue for the first Afro-Asian Conference, which brought together the leaders of 29 Asian, and African nations with the aim to promote economic and cultural relations and take a common stand against colonialism.
The road from Jakarta to Bandung passes through a beautiful panorama of mountains, paddy fields and small holiday resorts.
An expressway connects the crowded capital city with Bogor and the mountain areas, and onward to Bandung.
Bandung has a number of sea resorts on its western and southern coasts, which have modern hotels and are popular during the weekends.
The Sundanese people are soft-spoken while The women of the Bandung region are known for their beauty.
A lighthearted people who have a love for bright colors, their mournful "kecapi" music is memory of beautiful legends.
West Sumatra is one of the most beautiful areas of Indonesia.
West Sumatra is mountainous and divided by three valleys with lovely lakes and spectacular volcanoes.
But Minangkabau land is very special and has the most friendly population group of Indonesia.
People love to talk with visitors and will tell us about their unique society. 
If a visitor tries to understand the culture and Minang traditions he will soon feel himself a member of the clan.
He will be invited as a guest to their homes - a unique way to become acquainted with real Indonesian life.
Most of your hosts and hostesses in West Sumatra are English teachers so language will not be much of a problem. They will show you the community and explain their customs. 
The land of the Minangkabau, West Sumatra has a distinct culture, which distinguishes it from the rest of the island.
A land of scenic beauty with blue green lakes and mountains, West Sumatra's Centre of culture and tourism is Bukittinggi in the highlands, north of the provincial capital of Padang.
Most prominent in the landscape is the horn-shaped roofs of the houses nestled in the coconut groves.
The name Minangkabau means triumphant buffalo which leads a community and family life based on a matrilineal system, which clusters around mosques and the traditional houses.
As it is the women who have the properties, the men are known for their wanderlust and entrepreneurship.
Traveling is considered a mark of success and therefore many of them are found "merantau" (emigrated) to other parts of the country.
This is proof that many Minang or Padang restaurants, serve very spicy food, found in all major towns in the nation.
The people are hospitable and eloquent in a poetic style of speech and ceremonies, festivals are colorful occasions.
West Sumatra province has about 49,778 sq km width, which is located between 0o 54' North Latitude and 3o 30' South Latitude and between 98o 36' and 101o 53'.
The West Sumatran coastline faces the Indian Ocean and stretches 375 km from North Sumatra province in the northwest to Bengkulu in the southeast.