The extreme sport of wakeboarding, a cross between water-skiing and snowboarding, is about speed, color and adrenaline.
Wakeboarding is the latest extreme sport to take the beach scene by storm.
In wakeboarding, you are strapped at 90 degrees into a shortened, double – ended surfboard, and towed at high speed behind a special speedboat.
The boat is designed and weighted to make a large wake behind it, and the wake boarder speeds along the sea at 30 kilometers an hour, cutting in and out of the wake, using it to jump into the air, turn, swivel and somersault.
Wakeboarding is fast, furious, exhilarating and a fantastic spectator sport.
Although new, Wakeboarding’s popularity is soaring in Thailand.
Boats and boards are available for hire at the main beaches of Phuket in the Andaman Sea, and at Samui in the Gulf of Thailand.
Wakeboarding is also practiced at the resort city of Pattaya on the Eastern Seaboard.
Near to Bangkok, there is a Wakeboarding Club at Taco Lake, 13 kilometers from the city along the Bang Na-Trat Road.
Rather than using boats, this uses a system of pulleys set up in the lake and is thus cheaper and suitable for people wishing to learn this exciting sport.
Serious wake boarders may wish to bring their own boards and binding, or purchase them at many leading department stores in Bangkok.
Thailand’s national parks and wildlife sanctuaries are some of the best and most extensive in Southeast Asia, and although abundant wildlife is found everywhere in the kingdom, they are the best places to see rare and protected species.
Almost all parks have on-site accommodation and food, trails of varying levels of difficulty, and many organize trips, recreational and educational activities.
Huay Kha Khaeng and Thung Yai Naresuan wildlife sanctuaries in Uthai Thani and Kanchanaburi provinces respectively are two of the best places to start.
They contain such magnificent creatures as bears, Leopards, tigers, elephants, tapirs, deers, gibbons, monkeys, macaque, guars, shy forest ox, and banteng, or wild red cattle.
Khao Yai National Park, three hours from Bangkok, is another excellent nature study site, with many research projects currently underway on creatures such as gibbons, tigers and hornbills.
Khao Khieo Wildlife Sanctuary in Chon Buri Province has an open zoo which makes its wildlife particularly accessible.
Species include guar, dusky languor, barking deer and brow-antlered deer.
In one of the largest aviaries in the world, it also has the sarus crane and black-necked stork, which it is hoped will one day be reintroduced to the wild.
Kaeng Krachan National Park, the country’s largest pristine forest, there are superb walking trails around a 36 kilometer road, and treks of up to two weeks can be organized.
Be prepared for some truly inspiring trees, 70 meters tall and more and where the forest is open, it is like being inside a living cathedral.
In the forest, whether the mountainous evergreen or lowland deciduous, Thailand’s wealth of flora and flowering trees calls forth an astonishing abundance of butterflies.
Visit the World Heritage sites of Thung Yai Naresuan and Huai Kha Khaeng sanctuaries ad the prairie flowers blossom, and you’ll see the whole expanse of grassland shimmer with the vivid hues of these delicate creatures.
Go to the mudflats and wetlands along the coast, particularly in Khao Sam Roi Yot National Park, you will find a totally different yet equally copious assortment of species.
The kingdom of Thailand is alive with the fluttering brilliance of over 1,200 species of butterfly more than almost any country in the world.
If you are out in the forest at night, you could well see the world’s largest moth, spectacular for both its bold brown and cream markings and for its incredible eight inch wingspan
Trekking is one of the most popular outdoor activities enjoyed by visitors of all ages.
While trekking you can soothe your mind and spirit in the fresh air and stunning scenery of Thailand's undiscovered wilds, and get a comprehensive aerobic workout at the same time.
Treks can range from a single day light excursion to physically challenging adventures of a week or more.
Trails are found in Umphang Wildlife Sanctuary and the western portion of Thung Yai Naresuan, which together with the adjoining Huai Kha Kaeng Wildlife Sanctuary has been designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.
Campsites are provided but you must bring your own tent and camping gear.
Most who visit Mae Sot in Tak are determined to see the spectacular Ti Lo Su Waterfall.
Tour operators usually offer mountain biking, elephant-back rides, or rafting for part of the long trek, but most of it is done on foot.
PHITSANULOK and PHETCHABUN, Both provinces are popular camping and trekking destinations because they contain several national parks between them, each featuring different landscape and flora and fauna.
Nowadays an efficient raod network links the area with the rest of the country, and nature lovers flock there for the waterfalls, the fields of wildflowers and butterflies, and the spectacular landscape, which changes with the seasons.
Best time to go is October - December for the wildflowers, although anytime of the year is suitable for hiking and camping.
Thung Salaeng Luang National Park, 80 kilometres from Phitsanulok on the route to Lomsak, is marked by its open savanna, which blazes with colour during the wildflower season (July - October)
Wild animals are often spotted feeding around these fields.
Phu Hin Rong Kla, 125 kilometres from Phisanulok, got its name from the strange-looking rock fields eroded by wind and rains.
The park features many hiking trails, most of them leading to beautiful waterfalls.
Nam Nao National Park on the Lomsak-ChumPae route is one of the top camping destinations in the cool season (November - February) with its pine forest, caves of stalactites and stalagmites and dry, cool weather.
It is a watershed area and the source of several rivers in the North and Northeast.
Loei province has long been a favourite destination for nature lovers, most of whom come to scale the famous mesa mountain Phu Kradueng.
The other two of Loei?s triple lofty treats are Phu Luang, within whose range lies a wildlife reserve, and Phu Rua and best time to go is November to April.
Hiking trails on the summit of Phu Kradueng lead through changing landscapes, from flower dotted meadows to pine forests to waterfalls.
The mountain is part of a national park and a natural habitat for rare orchids, birds and wildlife including the tailed turtle, or Tao Pulu.
Phu Luang, nicknamed "Emerald of the Northeast" is known for its biodiversity.
A wide array of wild orchids, ferns and wildflowers make hiking along its trails a delight.
Phu Rua, or Mount Boat, is marked by a landscape of sandstone cliffs and oddly shaped formations created by wind and rains.
From the peak, you have a view of the Mekong, a natural border between Thailand and Laos.
Khao Yai, or "Big Mountain", sprawls over parts of Nakhon Ratchasima, Prachin Buri and Nakhon Nayok.
Nakhon Ratchasima is the most popular national park in the country, attracting one million visitors a year with its scenic beauty and abundant plant and wildlife.
Khao Yai has four vegetation zones, spanning elevation from 100 metres to more than 1,400 metres: evergreen rainforest, semi-evergreen, mixed deciduous and hill evergreen forest.
Nakhon Ratchasima is also home to a large array of birds and animals.
Fifty trails follow the migratory paths of wildlife to beautiful waterfalls.
Commonly spotted animals include gibbons, langurs, deer, and monkeys.
You can join a night time safari in which rangers shine spotlight onto nightfeeding herds, making them easier to spot.
The best trails are found in Doi Inthanon National Park where over 360 bird species, spectacular butterflies, wildlife, orchids and other distinct flora vie for the hiker's attention.
Within the national park, there are beautiful Siriphum and Chedi waterfalls.
The Army Pack Division Headquarters on Chotana Road in Mae Rim District offers camping trips and horseback riding along with basic jungle survival skills training.
Home to a large ethnic population, including the Mon, Karen and Burmese, who have long settled in the border towns of Sangkhlaburi and Thong Pha Phum.
Most tour operators in Kanchanaburi offer trips to these areas that combine culture and adventure in one easily accessible package.
Some of the best hiking trails are in three national parks: Saiyok in Saiyok District and Erawan and Chalerm Rattanakosin in Srisawat District
Khao Sok in western Surat Thani and the adjoining Khlong Sean Wildlife Sanctuary provide a home for tigers, clouded leopards, Malaysian sun bears, elephants, gaur and many other rare species.
The park has hiking trails leading to caves and waterfalls surrounded by virgin forest.
Hiking is also popular on coconut-grove-dotted Samui and Ang Thong Archipelago's Mae Ko, which has a lake at its centre.
A number of tour operators on Samui specialise in trekking on both Samui and the main islands of Ang Thong Archipelago.
Most of the activities are centered on Khao Luang National Park, which contains the highest peak in the South, Khao Luang.
The area owes a lot of its new found international fame to the people of Khiriwong village, who led the way in community-based eco-tourism.
The hike to Khao Luang (1,835 metres above sea level) starts at Khiriwong village at the foot of the mountain and takes about two days
The trail spans four vegetation zones and leads through the natural habitat of numerous species including, Malaysian black bear, tigers, elephants, leopards and 200 species of bird, plus turtles, lizards and insects.
Khiriwong Village's Eco-tourism Club offers biking tours of Suan Somrom, or fruit orchards that are grown in the forest alongside indigenous trees.
This innovative and eco-friendly growing method is unique to the village.
Local tour operators offer treks that comprise rafting down Khlong Klai, which forms the northern border of the park, and elephant riding through surrounding forest.
Treks to suit your requirements are easily arranged through many private operators and government organizations.
A trek can range from a light walk in the woods to a grueling physical challenge.
Assess your objectives and level of fitness before booking a trek that is right for you.
Safety and medical considerations are important if you are trekking in the wide, as a simple sprain can be a real problem if you are a long way from civilization.
Your trek organizer should have contingency plans and first aid for any unforeseen problems.
Proper equipment is necessary for trekking. Good shoes or boots are a must.
Your trek organizer will probably provide backpacks, but make sure you have adequate warm and comfortable clothing, proof against insect bites, and a hat and UV block against the sun.
When exercising in tropical climates, it is recommended to drink up to five liters of water a day.
At Chiang Dao Elephant Camp in Chiang Dao District, elephants are trained to perform for tourists and available for rides in the nearby forest.
Mae Taeng Elephant Camp in Mae Taeng District offers bamboo rafting in addition to elephant-back rides.
Elephant riding is available at Mae Kok Elephant Camp on the bank of Mae Kok.
You can take a ride through the surrounding forest and to nearby Karen hilltribe villages.
An elephant ride through the jungle is popular with visitors to Thong Pha Phum and Sangkhlaburi.
A ride can be incorporated into a longer trek featuring mountain biking and rafting.
The Thai Elephant conservation centre in Lampang is offering an opportunity to eco-tourists to stay with real-life mahouts.
In northern Thailand, there are ten different tribes of hill people.
The Karen are by far the numerous and they're easy-going and friendly.
Many of the Hmong people live in Chiang Mai near the mountain peaks.
The most remote of the hilltribe people are the Akha, who still practice shifting cultivation.
Trekking is one way to learn about their lifestyles and traditions.
Hilltribe treks are a popular variety of trekking in and around Chiang Mai.
These cinsist of stretches trekked on foot, on elephant back, and by mountain bike, bamboo raft and rubber Kayak
Popular programmes include stops and overnight stays at ethnic villages: Karen, Lahu, and Shan.
Hilltribe treks at Chiang Rai also combine hiking; elephant back rides and rafting, and include stops or overnight stays at hilltribe villages.
One of the best hiking trails in Mae Hong Son is Doi Mae Ukor, in Khun Yuam District.
Royally-sponsored projects in the northern provinces of Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai offer a good opportunity to understand the lifestyles of hilltribe minorities.