The next great King was Praversein II in whose time people enjoyed perfect peace and prosperity.
He was a great conqueror who extended the boundaries of the state in all directions.
 He has made his name immortal by founding the city of Praverseinpura (modern city of Srinagar), the summer capital of the state at present. 
Praversein ruled ably for 60 years and is supposed to have directly ascended to heaven while worshipping Lord Shiva in his temple 'Pravesha' now standing in ruins near Hari-Parbat fort.
It was during the time of first king of Karkota dynasty, Durlabvardhan that the orate Chinese pilgrim, Hien-Tsang visited Kashmir and entered the valley via Varahmulla where he found a huge stone gate. 
The entry of all outsiders, except the Hindus, was banned in the state then. 
 He stayed in Kashmir for nearly two years, studied Sanskrit and Hindu scriptures at the feet of learned men here.
 It is the Karkota dynasty that has given Kashmir the greatest ruler Lalitaditya Muktapid (724- 761 A. D.). 
He is undoubtedly the Samudra Gupta of Kashmir. 
He was filled with an unquenchable thirst of world conquest. 
The Punjab, Kanuj, Tibet, Ladhak, Badakshan, Iran, Bihar, Gauda (Bengal) Kalinga (Orissa), South India, Gujarat, Malwa, Marwar and Sindh were all conquered by him. 
It was he, who finally broke the power of Arabs in Sindh. 
All these unbroken victories created a feeling of pride among the people here and his victories came to be celebrated in a big way. 
Kalhan who wrote his famous chronicle (Rajatarangini) nearly four hundred years after the death of Lalitaditya, records that even in his time the victories of the great victor were being celebrated throughout the valley. 
Alberuni, who accompanied Mahmud Gaznavi in his Indian Campaigns, specifically mentions in his book (Tahqiq-i-Hind) that Kashmiris observed second of Chaitra, as the day of victory.
 Lalitaditya was equally a great builder and he built his capital near the sacred shrine of Khir-Bhawani, and gave it the name of Parihaspur (city of pleasure). 
Throughout the valley, he built very fine and massive temples, out of which the world famous sun temple (Martand) built on Mattan Karewa, reminds us about the grandeur and splendor of the times when their builder ruled the state.
 The extensive ruins of his capital city Parihaspur, speak of his activities in the field of art and architecture. 
After his death, it is mostly the weak rulers except his grand son Jayatida, who ruled the valley. 
Both Lalitaditya, and Jayatida were great patrons of learning and extended their patronage to Bhavabhuti, Vakpatrija, Udhata Bhata, Damodhar Gupta, Manoratha, Sankhdanta and Samadhimat etc. 
The history of Karkota dynasty after Jayatida is a sad story of decline. 
All the conquered territories regained their independence, and the sovereignty of the ruler of Kashmir came to be confined to Vitasta basin. 
The economic ruin was hastened by the extravagant habits of both the rulers and the ministers.
 In the words of Kalhan : " the ministers and the grandees carried-off the revenues of the country, feasted in mutual jealousy on the master less kingdom, like wolves on a dead buffalo in a desert. 
 Laments Dr. P. C. Ray that “never before the Karkota period, had Kashmir performed such a feat, nor was she able to repeat it in future."
In spite of this entire Karkota rule on the whole has been considered as the glorious and remarkable periods of ancient Kashmir.
It was round about in 855-56 A. D. that Karkota rule ended, and a new Utpal Dynasty assumed power in Kashmir. 
The most important ruler of this dynasty was Maharaja Avanti-verman. 
It was he, who recovered Kashmir from utter political and economic disorder.
His reign witnessed a period of peace and consolidation and prosperity.
 It was during this time, that the valley rose to great heights in the realm of philosophy, artand letters. 
There was an outburst of literary activity on a grand scale, and eminent men Kallata Bhat sura, Ratnakar, Anandavardhana, Muktakana, Siva-Swamin, Rudrata and Mukula. Kalhan's mention of numerous temples built and towns founded by the King, and his ministers throws plenty of light on the prosperous condition of the period.
The most important foundation of the King was his capital city of Avantipur, which he embellished with two temples: one dedicated to Shiva and other to Vishnu. 
Both of them are in ruins now, but even then, they stand as the most imposing monuments of ancient Kashmir.
The reign of this King would not be complete without the mention of 'Suya' one of the greatest engineers Kashmir produced in ancient times. 
For centuries the people of the valley had been suffering from the recurring curse of famines and floods. 
Suya correctly assessed that these frequent calamities occurred due to heavy rains and excessive water of Vitasta river which could not easily get out with swiftness, through a gorge near Varahmulla, as the compressed passage there bad got blocked with silt and huge boulders. 
The people removed both the silt and stones when the great engineer threw plenty of gold and silver coins into the river at many places.
housands of starving people immediately jumped into the flooded Vitasta and in order to find the coins cleared the bed of the rocks and boulders which had choked up the passage.
Suya, then raised stone embankments, and adopted other protective measures. 
Many canals were dug-out to increase the irrigational facilities.
 The result of all these measures was that a great increase of land became available for cultivation. 
The production of paddy increased and the price of one Khirwar (nearly two mounds) came down to 36 Dinars from 200 Dinars.
Suya's memory is still preserved to this day, by the town Sayapur (Sopore) founded by him at the point where river Vitasta, since his regulation leaves the basin of Mahapadomsar (Wouler lake).
Avantivarman died in a temple on the Dal Lake, when a fatal disease caught him, and in the words of Kalhan, “listening to the end to the song of the Lord (Bhagvatgeeta) and thinking of the residence of Vishnu (Vaikuntha) he cast off his earthly life with a cheerful mind. 
In the time of King Yasakara (939-48) a 'Math' (hospice) was built for the students of India, who came to Kashmir for study and meditation.
 It clearly reveals intimate cultural contact between the valley, and plains of India in the 10th century. 
In 950, Khemgupta ascended the throne of Kashmir, a man of mediocre ability who married princess Didda, daughter of the ruler of Lohara (Poonch) and grand daughter of the Shahi king of Kabul.
After the eclipse of Utpala dynasty, Lohara dynasty ruled Kashmir till the end of the Hindu rule in Kashmir (1339). 
Queen Didda was the defector ruler of the state, as she was very dominating and exercised immense influence over her husband. 
She built many temples and monasteries and one of these was reserved for people of Madyadesha and Lata (U. P., Bihar and Central India).
 Before her, two other queens had ruled Kashmir namely Yashovati and Sugandha.
She died in 1003 A. D. and left the throne of Kashmir to her family in undisputed succession. 
As her children had died young, she transmitted the crown to Sangramraj, son of her brother Udairaj, the ruler of Lohara (Poonch).
It was during her time that Mahmud Gaznavi twice tried to capture the valley but the fort at Lohara, remarkable for its height and strength proved impregnable.
From 1089 to 1101 A. D., King Harsha ruled Kashmir.
 Versed in many languages, a good poet, lover of music and art, he started his rule in a remarkable way, and became famous in northern India. 
His court was a centre of luxury and splendor. 
He introduced new fashions in dress and ornaments. 
His ministers were gorgeously dressed, wore earrings and head dresses, previously reserved for the members of ruling families only. 
But strangely enough, Harsha's career became a record of follies and misdeeds.
The people also suffered from famine, and plague as well, and a considerable section of people became victims of these calamities. 
Harsha along with his son Bhoja were murdered, and the Kashmir throne passed into the hands of two princes respectively. 
Both the princes met the fate of Harsha and when our great historian Kalhan completed his 'Rajatarangini' in 1149 - 50 King Jaisimha, the last great ruler of the Hindu times was ruling the state.
The King repaired and restored many temples and shrines, and numerous other pious foundations were also made during his reign. 
The people after a long time heaved a sigh of relief. From 1155 - 1339, the Kashmir rulers remained busy only in intrigues, debauchery, and mutual quarrels. 
These incessant feuds, civil wars, risings and upheavals greatly weakened Hindu domination of Kashmir. 
The valley soon fell a prey to Mongol and Turkish raiders, free booters and foreign adventurers. 
The Kabul valley Proutonsa (Poonch), Pajapuri (Rajauri) Kangra, Jammu, Kisthwar and Ladhak, one after the other threw-off their allegiance to the rulers of Kashmir.
Like Taimur in the Punjab and Delhi, Dulucha carried sword and fire, destroyed towns and villages and slaughtered thousands. 
A weak and worthless man Raja Sahadev was the ruler then.
 It was during his reign that three adventurers, Shah Mir from Swat (Tribal) territory on the borders of Afganistan, Rinchin from Ladhak, and Lankar Chak from Dard territory near Gilgit came to Kashmir, and played a notable role in subsequentive political history of the valley. 
The last Hindu ruler of Kashmir was Udyan Dev. 
It was his chief Queen Kota Rani, who practically governed the state. 
The valley was again invaded by a Mongal and Turk invader Achalla, but the Queen defeated him, and drove away all the foreign troops. 
In the confusion Rinchin, the Ladhaki prince, whom the Hindu religious leaders of the time refused to admit into their fold, organized an internal rising and seized the throne
Before switching over to the early Muslim period, it would be proper to point out, very briefly of course, the contribution of people here, in the field of Philosophy, Literature and Archaeology.
In the field of Philosophy Kashmir's contribution is the "Shiva School of thought", which assumed a distinctive character in the valley. 
Shiva is another name for independence, and the only reality of the universe is Shiva who is infinite consciousness, and unrestricted independence. 
He has many other features like omnipresence, eternality, and formlessness, though independence is peculiar to him. 
The three great Acharyas of this school are Vasugupta, Kallatha and the great Abhinavagupta. Hundreds of other Kashmiri philosophers, and thinkers wrote masterpieces on this philosophy in the subsequent periods of our history
 It was Vasumitra and Nagarjuna who gave shape and form to this new school of thought. 
Nagarjuna, in the words of Havell, was the Luther of Buddhism, the apostle of Bhaktimarga, who would find means of expression for the deep seated religious instinct of the masses, through the way of devotion to the divine teacher, rather than through the dry agnostic philosophy of Hinayana School. 
This creed became very popular in China, Japan, Tibet and Ladakh. Nagarjuna has been raised to the exalted position of Buddistava and enjoys the reputation of being the greatest thinker of the age. 
In the field of Literature, there is hardly any branch of learning which the people of Kashmir had not studied, and to which they did not make their own original contribution. 
In philosophy, religion, medicine, astronomy, literature, engineering, sculpture, architecture, painting, music, dancing, and in many other walks of life the progress of Kashmiries during the ancient times is astonishing and striking.
In the words of Grieson, "for upwards of two thousand years, Kashmir has been the home of Sanskrit learning and from this small valley has issued masterpieces of history, poetry, romance, fable, and philosophy. 
Kashmiries are justly proud of the literary glories of their land.
For centuries Kashmir was the house of the greatest Sanskrit scholars, and at least one great Indian religion of 'Shaivism' has found some of its most eloquent teachers on the banks of the Vitasta.
 Some of the greatest Sanskrit scholars and poets were born, and wrote in the valley and from it has issued in Sanskrit language a world famous collection of folk-lore." (Panchtantra.)
In the domain of architecture, the charm of Kashmir, apart from its magnificent natural scenery, lies in its temples and fine arts.
 Wrote one European art critic: "Ancient India has nothing more worthy of its civilization, than the grand remains in Kashmir, the massive, the grotesque the elegant in architecture, may be admired in many parts of India, but now here is to be seen, the counterparts of the classically graceful, yet symmetrically massive edifices of Kashmir, and in beauty, and position are immensely superior.” 
The best preserved of these stone temples are at Martand and Avantipur. 
The Martand temple has been universally admired by the archeologists and the artists. 
Writes Stein: “It is no longer possible to trace with certainty, the cities, and remains of all the towns and structures which owed their existence to Lalitaditya. 
But those among them which can be identified justly by their extant ruins, the great fame which Lalitaditya enjoyed as a builder. 
The ruins of the splendid temple of Martand which the king had constructed near the 'Tirtha' of the same name are still the most striking object of ancient Hindu architecture in the valley. 
Even in their present state of decay, they command admiration both by their imposing dimensions, and by the beauty of their architectural design and decoration."
No one without an eye for natural beauty would have chosen that special site for the construction of a temple, and no one with an inclination to the ephemeral and transient world have built it, on so massive, and enduring a scale.
Thus Lalitaditya must be regarded as the founder not only of Shortlived Empire, but also of six centuries of Kashmir Hindu Art. "