Ganesha Chaturthi is one of the most important festivals celebrated in Mumbai.
Colorful pavilions house ornate statues of the God Ganesh and the nights come alive with the folk dances- Dandiya and Garba- before the festival culminates with the idols ceremoniously taken in procession to be immersed in the sea on Chowpatty beach.
The Hindu festivals of Dashera or Navratri and Diwali; Muslim festivals of Id and Christian festivals of Easter and Christmas are celebrated with great community participation and gusto.
The Elephanta Festival held in February on the Elephanta Island is a festival of classical Indian dance and music organised by the MTDC.
Navaratri is a nine-day long festival honoring the manifestations of Shakti, which represent action (Durga), wealth (Lakshmi) and learning (Saraswati), in Mumbai the festival is celebrated with elaborate dandiya and garba dances.
Christians in Mumbai celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ with great fanfare.
Mumbai is well connected by major National Highways to almost all parts of the country.
Mumbai is India's busiest International Airport and is served by all major International Airlines.
On the domestic network, Mumbai is connected by Indian Airlines, Jet Airways and Sahara Airlines, to most major cities in India by frequent daily flights.
Mumbai is the headquarters of the Central and Western Railways.
Regular trains connect it with all major cities like Aghamedabad, Aurangabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Calcutta, Delhi, Goa, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Madras, Nagapur and Trivandrum.
An alluring atmosphere of mystery, a land wrapped in velvety silence, is what instantly strikes a visitor to Manipur, which literally means 'the land of jewels'.
Described by Lord Irwin as the 'Switzerland of India', Manipur boasts of an exotic landscape with gently undulating hills, emerald green valleys, blue lakes and dense forests.
It is the sheer tranquility enveloping it, interrupted only by a soft breeze, which sets it apart from the other North-Eastern states, and makes it the ideal getaway. 
The characteristics of the Manipuri people vary according to geographical divisions.
Early Manipuris were followers of Hinduism, and believed in the hierarchy of the Gods.
The advent of Christianity resulted in the conversion of the people residing inthe hills, while the majority of men from the plains continued to be Hindus.
Imphal is basically a mini-metropolis, the capital city of this beautiful land of blue-green hills, cascading rapids, carpets of flowers and winding rivers beckons the tourist.
In Imphal one can visit - Govindajee Temple, Shaheed Minarin, Tikendrajit Park, War Cemetry, State Museum, Khwairamband Bazaar.
6 kms. from Imphal Iroishemba is a zoological park.
From Khonghampat Orchidarium one can view over 120 species of orchids besides some of the rarest orchids in the world. 
Langthabal is the relics of an old historic palace well planned temples and ceremonial houses. 
Bishnupur  is famous for its conical roofed temple, dedicated to Lord Krishna. 
Moirang town is one of the main seats of early Manipuri folk culture with the ancient temple of the pre-Hindu deity Lord Thangjing, situated here. 
INA Museum has on display photographs, articles, records and other memorabilia related to the Indian National Army.
Loktak Lake & Sendra Island is a saucer shaped fresh water lake which attracts many species of birds. 
Keibul Lamjao National Park is the only floating National Park in the world. 
Ukhrul district headquarters of Manipur east, 83 kms, away is the highest hill station of the state.
Indian Airlines connects Imphal with Calcutta, Dimapur, Silchar, Guwahati and Delhi. 
Imphal is connected by a network of roads with all the important cities of North Eastern India. 
All foreign tourists visiting Manipur require Restricted Area Permit issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India, South Block, New Delhi - 110 011. 
The area that can be visited include Imphal city, Loktak Lake, INA Memorial (Moirang), Sendra, Keibul Lamjao National Park & Khongjom War Memorial. 
All domestic tourists visiting Manipur via Dimapur / Kohima require Innerline permit to pass through Nagaland. 
Imphal can also issue permits to tourists traveling by road from Imphal to Kohima & Dimapur in Nagaland.
Imphal, the capital of Manipur, is the centre of all cultural, commercial and political activities.
Imphal derives its name from yumpham, which means homestead. 
Imphal is a beautiful city and stands in a beautiful wooded valley full of lakes.
Imphal is one of the most ancient towns in the Indian subcontinent and is blessed with a healthy climate with evergreen scenic beauty, extending the tourists a cordial invitation.
Andro is the ancient scheduled caste village about 27 kms, towards east of Imphal and there is one cultural complex established by the Mutua Museum.
It houses potteries of the Northeastern region of India and there is a 'Doll-House' where dolls of 29 recognized tribes of Manipur are in display.
Kaina is a scared place of Hindus and is 29 kms. from Imphal.
Khonghampat Orchidarium is the Orchid Yard of the Forest Department, on the national highway no 39 and is another place of interest and more than 110 varieties of orchids including several rare species are grown here. 
Khongjom situated on the Indo-Burma Road, 36 kms. from Imphal, this is a place of greatest historic importance where Major General Paona Brajabashi, proved his valor against the superior force of the invading British Army in 1891.
Khwairamband Bazaar  also known as Nupi Keithel and Ima Bazaar or Mothers Market is a large covered market split into two sections on both sides of the Khwairamband Road and has tribal women clad in colorful, traditional attire selling everything from hand-woven shawls, skirts to fish, lotus, oranges and orange-flavored honey.
Langthabal is small hillock is situated about 8 kms. from Imphal on the Indo-Burma Road and houses an old historic palace and neatly planned temples.
Langthabal offers a view of the Manipur University.
Loktak Lake and Sendra Island Loktak lake, 48 kms. from Imphal, is the largest fresh water lake in eastern India and this lake is like a miniature inland sea.
Sendra Island, about 50 odd kilometres from Imphal, offers a bird's eye view of the park and its occupants.
One can explore the park by traveling around in tiny small boats and also climb up the watchtower located on the hillock of Bebet Ching. 
Manipur State Museum is near the Polo ground is an interesting museum, which is the best place to get a glimpse of Manipur history and culture.
The Manipur Zoological Garden is about 6 kms. from Imphal at Iroishemba on the Imphal Kangchup Road.
It houses "Sangai", a brow-antlered deer in sylvan surroundings and is situated at the foothills of the pine tree hillock. 
Moirang is about 45 kms. from Imphal and is a very sacred place for the Manipuri people.
It holds an ancient temple of the pre-Hindu deity, Lord Thangjing, the flag of the Indian National Army was first hoisted here on April 14, 1944.
There is also an Indian National Army Museum depicting their struggle for India's independence, the museum is open from 8 A.M. to 6 P.M.
Phubala  is a charming resort on the western fringes of the Loktak lake and is 40 kms. from Imphal, it is joined to the mainland by a low causeway and boating and other water sports are being introduced here.
Sahid Minar is the tall Minar of Bir Tikendrajit Park in Imphal commemorates the indomitable spirit of Manipur martyrs who sacrificed their lives fighting the British in the Anglo-Manipuri war in 1891.
Sekta Mound, locally known as the "SEKTA KEI" is a protected Archaeological site, located at Sekta village, about 16 kms from Imphal.
Shree Shree Govindajee Temple is Manipur's pre-eminent Vaishnavite temple adjoining the palace of the former rulers of Manipur.
Shree Shree Govindajee Temple is a great historic centre and is a simple and beautiful structure with gold domes and a large raised congregation hall.
Singda is a hill resort on the hills, 16 kms. from Imphal to the west.
There is an inspection bungalow and a nice artificial lake called Singda Dam, which is now a multipurpose project.
War Cemetries are managed by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, commemorating the memories of the British and Indian soldiers, who died during the Second World War. 
Indian Airlines connect Imphal with Delhi via Guwahati on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays.
There is no direct train service to Imphal, but travelers can travel upto Guwahati or Dimapur and then rest by bus or by air.
Meghalaya or 'abode of the clouds’ is a source of inspiration to any poet, a dramatic canvas for an artist's dream, and the ideal retreat for people in search of beauty and solitude.
Meghalaya is one of the most picturesque states of India, offering a spectrum of sylvan surroundings, rich cultural heritage, misty heights, breathtakingly beautiful waterfalls, luxurious vegetation, flora and fauna.
Carved out of the former state of Assam, Meghalaya is one of the seven sister states of the North-Eastern region, bordered by Assam in the north and Bangladesh in the south.
Meghalaya is divided into five administrative districts of the Jaintia hills, East and West Garo hills and East and West Khasi hills.
It is among the wettest places on earth - little wonder that Meghalaya means, Abode of Clouds.
The state has a picturesque colonial capital, Shillong, and is home to an extraordinary diversity of people, which includes the Khasi, Jantia and Garo tribes.
Agriculture is the main occupation of Meghalaya, with eighty three percent of the total population, dependent on it for their livelihood.
Shilong the capital city of Meghalaya with an incomparable climate which lies at a height of 1,496 metres, above sea level.
Often likened to Scotland, it has rolling hills, heather-covered slopes, beautiful waterfalls, moving mists, silent lakes and a rich unique variety of flora and fauna.
Cherrapunjee one of the wettest places in the world with very heavy rainfall. 
Nohsngithiang Falls (in Mawsynram), the town is also famous for its limestone caves and orange honey, and it also has the oldest Presbyterian Church.
Nartiang’s greatest attraction is to be found off the small road that runs amid forest, streams and hills in a quiet and shaded glen.
Thadlaskein basically a lake, it is a popular picnic spot. 
Jakrem is a popular health resort having hot springs of sulphur water, believed to have curative medicinal properties. 
Dawki is a border town, 96 kms. from Shillong gives you a glimpse of Bangladesh. 
Ranikor is a scenic spot and an angler's paradise because of a huge population of carp and mahseers.
Mizoram perched like a lone sentinel on the tip of the north eastern border of India; idyllic Mizoram is an amalgam of the former north and south Lushai hill districts.
Mizoram is a land of great natural beauty, an endless variety of landscape with rich flora and fauna, clusters of whispering pines, and quaint villages with houses on stilts. 
Mizoram, or the land of Mizos (highlanders), has international boundaries with Myanmar and Bangladesh while it shares its domestic borders with the states of Assam, Manipur and Tripura.
The Tropic of Cancer runs through the heart of Mizoram, and hence, it has a pleasantly temperate climate throughout the year.
A land of steep hills and deep gorges, Mizoram's highest peak 'The Blue Mountain' rises to a height of 2165 meters.
Important rivers that flow through the hilly state Mizoram are Tlawang, Sonai, Tuivawl, Kolodine and Kamaphul.
Aizawl is the state capital is located at an altitude of 4,000 ft. above sea level; it’s an ideal hill station for those looking for fresh air and solitude.
Bung and Paikhai 15 and 16 kms. respectively, from Aizawl these are two cool breezy places adjacent to each other. 
Tamdil is a natural lake amidst virgin forests of Saitaui village with boating facilities to add to its appeal. 
Vantawng Waterfalls are 750 ft. high and are surrounded by a lush green tropical forest filled with bamboo groves. 
Champhai is situated at the end of Mizoram and one can view from here the Myanmar Hills. 
Dampa Sanctuary established in 1976, it is inhabited by swamp deer, tiger, leopard, elephant and Hoolock Gibbon. 
Aizwal with Guwahati, Silchar & Calcutta are connected by Indian Airlines flights to major cities in India.
Nearest railway station Silchar (Assam) is 180 kms from Aizwal, where as Guwahati, 397 kms from Silchar, is the most convenient railhead connected with the most of the major places in India.
Aizwal is connected by National Highway No. 54 to the rest of the country via Silchar. 
Aizawl, the scenic capital of Mizoram, is a religious and cultural center of the Mizos.
Perched at an altitude of 4000 ft. above sea level, Aizawl is accessible from Shillong, Guwahati and Silchar, by bus, by road and by car.
The town is blessed with exotic natural beauty and is famous for its handicrafts.
Aizawl is an ideal hill station for tourists looking for solitude, clean air and new destination.