Every spring the stones of Khajuraho come to life during the prestigious 7-day Khajuraho Dance Festival when the glory of the temples is celebrated with true fervour and joy.
The city of Udaipur is a lovely land around the Azure water lakes hemmed in by the lush hills of the Aravails.
A vision in white drenched in romance and beauty, Udaipur is a fascinating blend of sights sounds and experience-an inspiration for the imagination of poets, painters and written.
The majestic Ashoka pillar records visit of emperor Ashoka to Sarnath.
Rajasthan is the most colorful region in India exhibiting splendor and royalty in every walk of life.
The annual Urs at Dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti is held on a grand scale and attracts pilgrims from all over the world.
Rajasthan is the first choice for the travelers looking for heritage tour & travel in India.
The magic of Rajasthan is unequalled in the world for its heritage, culture, safaris, sand dunes and lush green forests with its wildlife.
The Boating facility attracts native as well as foreign tourists here in Mount Abu.
Rajasthan is a treasure-trove of temples art & architecture.
The Thar or the Great Indian Desert, as it is generally known, is a fascinating area.
Rajput Heritage Rajasthan has been long regarded as the land of Maharaja’s, forts and palaces.
Adventure tourists may like to undertake winter trekking from November to March when the higher reaches of the district are snow clad and access to most of the villages is on foot.
Chamba has a number of temples, Palaces and stylized buildings.
Laxmi Narayana Temple, which is the main temple of Chamba town, was built by Sahil Varman in the 10th century AD.
CHAMUNDA DEVI TEMPLE has artistic carvings on its lintel, pillars and the ceiling.
CHAMUNDA DEVI TEMPLE is an ideal picnic spot throughout the year because it has an easy approach and a commanding view.
The Chaugan is the heart and hub centre of all activities in Chamba.
Minjar is the most popular fair of Chamba which is attended by a large number of people from every nook and corner of the district.
Minjar fair has been declared as one of the state fairs of Himachal Pradesh.
The main tourist attractions are Panchpula, Kalatop and Khajiar lake.
An insignificant looking board bearing the name of Kynance hangs from a tree and is discernible to only those tourists who have an eye for details.
The Kangra valley is one of the most picturesque valleys of lower Himalyas.
BANGANA-LATHIAN-PIPLU attract tourist during winter season especially, when they propose to visit other religious places like Jogi Ponga and Naina Deviji.
DERA BABA BHARBHAG SINGH place has famous Gurudwara where thousand of Sikhs visit every year to receive the blessing of Baba Bharbhag Singh.
Himachal was known since the earliest of times as "Devabhoomi", the abode of the Gods.
In the Bilaspur is a Vyas Gufa, which draws a continuous host of tourists and pilgrims.
The Bilaspur Dam height is 225 meter and that dam is highest in the world.
The most notable place of worship in the district of Bilaspur is the temple of Shri Naina Devi Ji.
The Himalayas which have nearly Fourteen thousands glaciers are one of the largest continental areas under ice.
Bara Shingri Glaciers is the largest in Himachal Pradesh; it falls in the Chandra Valley of Lahaul and feeding the river Chenab.
The river Bhaga originates from Bhaga Glaciers glacier.
Chamba is Ancient Capital of Pahari Kings situated on the bank of river Ravi at an altitude of 996 meters.
Chamba has preserved the ancient culture and heritage and Chamba is known for the elegence of its temples and handicrafts.
Chail has also the highest cricket ground in the world.
Away from hustle and bustle Chail is quit peaceful and comfortable place to visit.
Dalhousie, gateway to Chamba, the "vale of milk and honey", sparkling and impetuous streams.
Dalhousie's natural beauty, invigorating air, warm sunshine and quiet surrounding add enchantment to its open and colorful valleys, level walks and treks amidst the dense forests.
Dharamsala has risen to international repute as "The Little Lhasa in India".
More than 3,000 Tibetans have made Dharamsala their   emporary home, living mostly in Mcleod Ganj.
Among the charms of Dalhousie are the throngs of Tibetans, still in traditional garb, and the lovely picnic spots, pre-eminet among which is the plain of Khajjiar,
Under the canopy of the blue sky, set in the rolling green turf is a small but picturesque lake, with the added attraction of a floating island.
Adding to the Charms of Khajjiar, which also hugs a golden-domed Devi Temple, is a golf course set in idyllic surroundings.
About 200 km from Shimla strikingly beautiful district of Kinnaur where the the river Satluj carved deep gorges through the high mountains.
Tibet road which passes through the Kinnaur valley.
Literally Kullu the valley of hundred temples and a thousand derties, it offers peace, a mysterious, spiritual peace.
The Kullu valley begins at Aut on the northern end of the gorge in the Dhaula Dhar, cut by the river Beas at Larji, above Mandi.
Kullu is the second portion of Kangra, and the Beas here flows amidst broad cultivated terraces, about 1,000 meters (3,281 ft) above sea level.
Adjoining the Pangi valley is Lahaul valley where most of the people believe in Buddhism.
Dry and very cold, Lahaul plateau it is surrounded by high mountain on all sides, the great Himalayan in the north.
The threshold of the Lahaul plateau is nourished by Chandra & Bhaga rivers.
From Lahaul, the Himalayas can be seen in their entire mighty splendor.
With their slant Mongol eyes, prominent cheek bones and cheerful smiles, the people of the Lahaul give visitors an enthusiastic welcome Rahul was the son of Buddha and the name Lahaul is derived from Rahul.
Lingti is the one of the longest and largest valley of the Spiti.
Set amidst the hills the small and clean exquisite town of Palampur is bejeweled with lush green terraced fields, the majestic deodar trees, beautiful tea gardens, pine forests the snow clad and breath taking Dhauladhar range with its imposing sky high peaks.
North of Kullu is a beautiful spot, in the midst of pinewood with high mountains towering above it.
Also know as the 'Queen of Hill Stations', Manali at an altitude of 1,829 meters and 40 Km from Kullu
A veritable showpiece of nature with its un spoilt scenic beauty Manali can be made the headquarters of mountain.
Palampur has beautiful gardens and lovely walks.
An amusement park with cable car is being developed to attract more and more tourists in Palampur.
Palampur has a quite a reasonable accommodation and is well connected by rail, road and air.
The British called Shimla the "Queen of Hill Stations". Situated in the north-West Himalaya.
Shimla the summer capital of India before independence is now the capital of Himachal Pradesh.
No visit to the state capital Shimla is complete without visiting Jakhu Hill.
Jakhu hill looms over Shimla town and is the geographical nucleus. 
The Hanuman temple at the top of Jakhu hill is the highest point in Shimla.
The Jakhu temple is one of the most favoured spots for tourists apart from pilgrims.
State Museum,a representative collection of Himachal Pradesh's rich heritage exhibits include archeological artifacts, carvings, paintings and sculptures.
Shimla has an added attraction of Mini zoo amidst dense forest to the tourists where a rare breed of wild animals and pheasants species commonly found in Himalayan forest region have been kept in natural habitat.
Kufri, is a famous tourists spot only 16 kms from Shimla.
Monal' the State bird of Himachal Pradesh and one of the endangered species of Himalayan region has been the other attractions.
This place does not confine its activities to Golf alone but the day hikes and excursion through the woods and villages are other attractions for the tourists and nature lovers.
Sirmaur, triangle of 3 important tourist places namely Nahan, Renuka and Paonta Sahib, have attracted many tourists all round the year.
There are many attractions available in the Sirmaur.
One can visit these places in this order, first visit Renuka then Nahan and lastly Paonta Sahib from Shimla side or the vice versa.
Shimla variety of green chillies is extensively grown in the Shimla Hills to be sold to tourists and others.
The area surrounding Solan in very rich in peas, tomatoes ginger and beans.
Himachal Tourism Development Corporation has constructed a glass house for residential purpose in Solan.
SUNDER NAGAR is Famous for its temples, 26 k.m. from Mandi towards Shimla and at a height of 1,174 meters on the raised edge of a fertile valley.
The beautiful town of Sundernagar is known for its shady walks amidst towering trees.
On top of a hill in Sndar Nagar and visited by thousands of devotees every year, is the Sukhdev Vatika and temple of Mahamaya.
The most notable place of worship in the district of Bilaspur is the temple of Shri Naina Devi Ji.
The temple of Naina Devi is situated on the top of a triangular hill commanding and unparalleled view of the Holy Anandpur Sahib Gurudwara on one side and Gobindsagar on other.
Aprrox. 60 km from Bilaspur and in the Kangra District, is famous temple of Deot Sidh where there is the highly venerated cave temple of Baba Balak Nath Ji.
Shawls are speciality of Himachal Pradesh.
Amaravati is a small rural village which is predominantly Hindu and with a small population of Muslims too.
Statue of Lord Buddha in Dhyana Mudra is being made which will be ready just before the Kalachakra event begins and this is just near the original Maha Stupa of Amaravati.
A specially set up tented camp will serve as a temporary accommodation for pilgrims and tourists who are visiting Amaravati to attend the Kalachakra - a holy ceremony for world peace.
Delhi is the capital city and one of the largest cities in India.
The strategic location of Delhi, between the Aravalli hills and the river Yamuna, had attracted the attention of almost every King or Conqueror in this part of the world.
Delhi today is one of the most elegant capitals in the world.
The earliest reference to Delhi as a settlement is made in the Hindu epic, Mahabharata, which states that the Pandavas founded a city called ‘Indraprastha'.
In Delhi one can see, the mingling of many cultures, languages, tradition and peoples into one united Nation.
Jama Masjid in Delhi is the largest mosque in India, and was built by Shah Jahan in 1956 AD.
Chandni Chowk was the pulse of Mughal Delhi’s commercial life and was designed by Jahanara Begum, the favourite daughter of Shah Jahan in 1648.
Rashtrapati Bhawan is the official residence of the President of India was formerly known as the Viceregal Palace.It has an impressive garden called the MUGHAL GARDENS.
India Gate: Straight down the road from Rashtrapati Bhavan is India Gate which is primarily a memorial to unknown soldiers.
This 42 meter high structure is a war memorial in honour of soldiers who died during the Second World War. The structure has an eternal flame (Amar Jawan Jyoti) to honour the memory of the unknown soldiers.
Rajghat: Located near the banks of the Yamuna River, Rajghat is a serene monument. It marks the site where Mahatma Gandhi was cremated after his assassination.
Birla Mandir is one of the landmarks in New Delhi - the capital of India.