Is a picturesque lake 110 km from Agartala offers a motor or country boat ride in a vast body of water dotted with 48 islands.
57 km from Agartala, 25 km from Neermahal, has several temples to Lord Vishnu, lakes and ruins of an old palace.
4 km away is the built in Bengali hut style architecture in 1501, a `Shaktipeeth (power of the female goddess).
The state of Tripura is supposed to have been named after this temple.
It is said that the right foot of Sati (Shivas consort) fell here and a `peeth was constructed.
It looks very much like a tortoise and it is called 'Kurma peeth (Kurma tortoise).
One of the idols inside the sanctum sanctorum is small and would be taken with the kings on their hunts.
On Diwali, the festival of lights, in October/November every year a large fair is held here.
AGARTALA Agartala, the capital city of Tripura, lies barely 2 km from the Bangladesh border and 3 hours by road from Dacca.
The city has beautiful palaces, gardens, hills, temples and lakes, which fascinate visitors with their perfection.
The red government buildings are a study in contrast against the remarkably white old British buildings still in existence, notably the Maharajas Palace.
Agartala is struggling to keep pace with its essential services vastly outstripped by an increasing population.
Sightseeing in the Agartala stands on the banks of a small lake surrounded by huge Mughal gardens.
Built in 1901, the architecture is an interesting mix of Mughal and European influences.
The tiled floors, curved wooden ceiling, beautifully crafted doors and specially created pools add to the ambience of grandeur.
If you go to the front gate between 3pm and 4pm, you may get an entry pass.
The temples of Ummaneshwar and Jagannath in the grounds of this palace are open to all.
The Governor of Tripura now lives in a palace that was built in 1917 and named the ""by Birendra Krishna Manikya, a km away from the Ujjayanta Palace.
The Maharaja himself designed the palace and Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore was an occasional guest.
The southern side of the palace is open to public and has been named "Rabindra Kanan".
The gardens adjoining the palace are delightful.
Also worth seeing are the ethnological displays in the on HGB Road, Agartala.
The temple dedicated to 14 gods and goddesses, temple, church and the with Burmese statues of the Buddha are the other places worth a visit.
Travel Documents All visitors to India are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months.
Visa is mandatory except in the following cases Bhutanese and Nepalese visitors who are staying for less than 3 months, Nationals from the Maldives, if they are staying for a maximum of 90 days. 
Transit passengers who have a follow-on ticket within 72 hours of arrival as long as they are not going to leave the airport.
Special restrictions apply to Pakistani and Afghan nationals.
Tripura is presently open to tourists and special permits are no longer required.
Around & About By Air Agra is well connected by air, rail and roads.
There are domestic flights from Delhi, Khajuraho and Varanasi four times a week.
By Train The city has six railway stations of which Agra Cantonment is the largest.
Trains from Delhi, Gwalior, Jhansi and the south arrive here, it is closest to most good hotels, and has a tourist information counter.
Many tourists coming from Delhi take the Shatabdi Express, which arrives at 9 am in the morning and returns at 0815 at night, allowing for a one day trip.
By Road Agra is connected to Mathura (56 kms), Delhi (203 kms), Gwalior (118 kms), Jaipur (237 kms) and several other major cities.
There are UP State Road Transport (UPSRTC) as well as private buses plying to and from Agra.
The main bus terminus is the Idgah Bus stand, close to the Agra Cantonment station.
One can also drive from drive in from Delhi, either by a rented car or one's own.
The road is in very good condition at the moment.
The wise thing to do is to hire a car with a driver if you want to get the many tourist spots within and outside the city.
There are local buses but you may not want to risk these and for the rest, public transportation is really quite inadequate.
Cycle rickshaws and auto rickshaws are easily available all over the city and are a good local way to get around be prepared to bargain with the drivers or you may be taken literally for a ride!.
There are two tourist offices, one of UP tourism near Clarks Shiraz Hotel (64 Taj Road, Ph (0562) 360517) and the other of the Government of India (191 The Mall, Ph (0562) 363377).
The government of India office has more information on other destinations as well.
There is also a tourist information counter at the Agra Cantonment station.
The best time to visit Agra is between November and March.
The temperatures are moderate and several festivals coincide with this period.
UP tourism organizes the Taj Mahotsav every year between 18th and 27th February.
It is an arts and crafts fair held at the Shilpgram, the crafts village nears the Taj Mahal.
The Sharadotsav in October, is a cultural show with the countrys leading dancers and musicians performing at historical locations in the Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri (39 kms) There are several other fairs like the Kailash Fair (12 kms) in August/ September and the monthlong Bateshwar Fair (65 kms) in November.
There are some wonderful deluxe hotels in Agra and a lot of them vie to give you a view of the Taj Mahal.
They are mostly located in the quieter Cantonment area and the new Tourist Complex.
Most of the inexpensive budget accommodation is in Taj Ganj.
If you are ready for the crowds and noise, they can be a great money saver.
There are also some camp sites and paying guest accommodations available.
A camera is a must to capture on film one of the wonders of the world! Bring light cotton clothes, comfortable sandals and a hat in the summer and in winter, some light woolen clothes; evenings get a bit chilly.
Most of the good restaurants are in the Sadar Bazaar and Cantonment areas.
The inexpensive eating places are in Taj Gang, around the Taj Mahal.
The five star hotels have good restaurants, which serve authentic Mughlai cuisine.
Besides the local fare, Chinese and south Indian restaurants are also widespread.
Shopping can be both an exciting as well as taxing experience in Agra.
There is a lot one can pick up in handicrafts, but beware of the touts who lead you into shops that overcharge and pay a hefty commission.
It is best to go by yourself, and bargain hard.
The main shopping area is the Sadar Bazaar, besides Kinari Bazar, Gwalior Road, Mahatma Gandhi Road and Pratap pura.
The Taj complex also has emporia of several state governments.
You should not let your credit card out of sight, and avoid having goods shipped later, since many people have been cheated on them You will not be able to resist the marble inlay work and other local handicrafts.
Agra is a big exporter of leather and leather products to the west and you get to pick up some real bargains here.
Legend has it that Akbar, who had no son, went to the Sufi saint Sheikh Salim Chishti to seek his blessings.
Soon enough, prince Jahangir was born to his Hindu wife Jodha Bai.
As an expression of gratitude, Akbar shifted his capital to the new city which was build between 1569 and 1585. 
The location of Fatehpur Sikri was also appropriate for discussions and deliberations that the Emperor had with religious leaders, statesmen, writers and philosophers.
However, just 15 years after it was established, the court had to be moved out of Fatehpur Sikri because of acute shortage of water.
Built in Akbars favorite style in red sandstone, this 8 square kilometer complex houses several buildings, which are an amalgamation of Hindu and Islamic architecture.
Akbar was an astute ruler, who encouraged interaction with his Hindu subjects and neighboring chieftains.
He married the Hindu princess of Jaipur, and her brother Raja Man Singh became one of his trusted lieutenants.
This synthesis of society and culture is evident in the buildings of the fort.
The DiwanIAam is where the public could have an audience with the emperor.
The centerpiece of this hall is the carved Throne Pillar, which supports a circular platform connected to the edges by four bridges.
The emperor sat in the centre and discussions and debate were held here.
In front of this hall is a courtyard with a Pachisi court (a game like Ludo played with dice) where the emperor played using slave girls as live pieces.
It is said that the great Hindustani classical musician Mian Tansen once sang Raag Deepak (song of fire) here and with the intensity of his music set the place alight.
He then sang the monsoon raga, Megh Malhar invoking the rains and so doused the flames.
He was reputed to have a collection of some 50,000 manuscripts, which he would be read out from Akbar was himself illiterate, but the manuscripts were very precious for him and he carried them around wherever he went.
Akbars sleeping chambers, the Khwabgah (house of dreams) had water channels to cool the air.
The fivestoreyed palace is one of the prominent buildings in the fort.
It tapers to a single room at the top, and is supported by columns with various designs.
From the top, you get a commanding view of the entire fort complex, and were used by Akbar and his consorts.
Another building, the (palace of winds) allowed the ladies of the harem to catch the cool evening breeze.
The Jami Masjid was the first building to be constructed within the fort.
The main entrance to the mosque is through the Buland Darwaza (the grand gateway), which was built in 1576, it is 54 meters high and commemorates Akbars victorious return from his campaign in Gujarat.
The Dargah of the Sufi saint, who is believed to have blessed Akbar with a son, is also within the fort.
A white marble building with intricately carved lattice screens and engravings in mother of pearl, lapis lazuli and topaz.
Even today, childless women come to the Dargah or tomb to tie strings on the jails (screens) as prayer to the saint.
In the month of Ramzan the tomb celebrates Urs, when groups of kawwali singers perform devotional Sufi songs at the tomb.
Choice of accommodation in Fatehpur Sikri is limited.
The Tourist complex (Phone 05619 2490) offers clean and affordable accommodation with reasonable food.
The Archaeological Survey of India also has a guesthouse with spacious well furnished rooms at a very low rate.
From Fatehpur Sikri there are regular buses plying to the Bharatpur bird sanctuary about 25 kms away.
Also known as the Keoladeo Ghana National Park, it is a marshy area, which was originally built as a hunting retreat of the kings of Bharatpur.
Now declared a protected national park, one can see over 300 species of migratory birds, including the endangered Siberian cranes coming to nest in winter.
There is a tourist lodge within the park and early morning boat rides into the marsh are a treat for bird lovers.