The creator has been most generous to Chhattisgarh, endowing it with immense natural wealth- bountiful forests, magnificent lakes, mighty rivers and sparkling waterfalls. 
Dense forests cover more than 50 percent of Chhattisgarh, India’s ninth largest state, with an area of 1,36,000 sq km.
The forests are a treasure trove of rare and exotic flora and fauna. 
Chhattisgarh is also home to many indigenous tribes and communities. 
The State is an ideal getaway for the traveler tired of overcrowded hill stations and beaches. 
Most of the tourist spots in Chhattisgarh are waiting to be explored. 
Dotted with ancient monuments, exquisitely carved temples, unique Buddhist sites, palaces, caves, rock paintings and plateaus, Chhattisgarh has something for everyone- the nature lover, the lover of spiritualism. 
It is impressively progressive in its political and administrative outlook.
Bhoramdeo jungle retreat, Kawafdha, set amid forests, with the Maikal hills rising gently in the background, and the silence broken only by the chirping of birds, this red roofed farmhouse offers comfortable, clean rooms and reasonably good food.
From here, you can trek up to the hills, or go on excursions to the tribal villages in the vicinity.
Owned by the Kanker royal family, Royal Bastar Farm Jagdalpur has quaint little cottages (some made only of mud) that are decorated with vivid tribal motifs. 
You can enjoy traditional meals in a charming thatched pavilion, surrounded by the music of chirruping crickets.
The owners will go out of their way to ensure that you develop more than just a passing acquaintance with tribal art and culture. 
Chitrakote Falls Campsite, Bastar, perched above the Chitrakote Falls, a mere 40 km from Jagdalpur are luxury tents and log huts that afford spectacular view of the torrential waters. 
Run by the state tourism board, each tent is spacious enough for a double bedroom, with an attached bathroom and a verandah where you will be close enough to hear the waterfall roaring and hissing as it plunges down.  
Here you may even be treated to a Gedi dance show, in which tribal dancers perform on still-a throwback to the time when people walked on stilts to avoid snakes. 
If you want to give yourself ample time to explore the Kanger Valley National Park and the rich tribal culture of Bastar, the place to stay is Naman Bastar Resort in a village near Jagdalpur. 
Surrounding by mango groves and rice fields are about a dozen attractive red-roofed cottage, each with a balcony where you can spend peaceful moments savouring the picturesque view.
Once a residence for British officers, this imposing mansion at the foot of the rocky Keshkal hills became the palace of the Kanker royal family who still live here. 
You can stay in on of the five spacious suites, some with aging punkahs, each with its own verandah. 
Recalling a longgon era, bisons, leopards and deer stare glassily from the walls. 
Meals, cooked using produce from the palace farm, are served in the grand dining hall; don’t be surprised if the friendly members of the royal family join you for dinner.
Palace Kawardha, set against scenic paddy fields and the Maikal foothills, and surrounded by beautiful lawns, the Italian marble-and-stone palace boasts grand staircase, large high-ceilinged rooms, and sweeping verandahs. 
Although the royal family still live on the top floor, you can stay in on of six rather ornately decorated rooms. 
Enjoy a leisurly drink in the cosy bar or just relax on the comfortable sofas of the grand Durbar Hall.
The only way to sample traditional tribal food is if you’re invited to a Gond or Baiga home-easy if you spend a day or two at the Bhoramdeo Jungle Retreat, Kawardha (or any of the larger stay option), where the owner arrange visits to the local villages.
The staple fare usually gruel made of hand pounded unpolished rice with chana dal, sometimes accompanied by tender yiung bamboo shoots or roti made from crushed bamboo seeds. 
A delicacy is a chutney made from red ants (yes, ants!) soaked in water and then ground together with garlic and green chillies- believe it or not, it’s quite palatable once you open your mind to it. 
Desert is no ordinary affair either: singhara (water chestnuts) are crushed and used to make a rather herbal-tasting halwa.
What is little known is that sal butter, made by the Gonds from the seeds of the sal tree, is used as an ingredient for international brands of chocolate.
The Mahua tree is for Chhittisgarh what potatoes are for Russians. 
Every part of tree is put to use- the fried flowers for snacks, the leaves cooked as a vegetable and a kind of oil extracted from the fruit, said to be richer and tastier than ghee. 
Mahua flower-buds also make a delicious sweet. 
For a kick, it’s Mahua liquor, distilled from dried Mahua flowers. 
Another alcoholic drink is Sulfi, a milky drink made from the fermented sap of the sago palm tree. 
A traditional Chhattisgarhi breakfast staple is Bafuri. 
A deep-fried ball of chana dal (split seeds of gram) paste crushed with green coriander leaves, green chillies, salt and oil, and often delicately flavoured with dried Methi (fenugreek) leaves. 
Said to have an instant revitalizing effect, magically banishing fatigue, this wholesome snack is worthy trying also because of its unque taste- a bit like a pakora but not quite. 
Dozens of special rice varieties are grown in Bilaspur, known as the ‘Dhan ka katora’ (rice bowl).
The most fragrant is the famous short-grained doobraj rice, which you can take home to add an unusual touch to your dinner.
Set up about 30 years ago to cater to hungry commuters using Raipur’s Old Bus Stand, Sahu Jalebi Bhandar soon became a landmark in town. 
People flock here in the early morning for a heary breakfast- a mix of poha (rice flakes soaked in water and then dried) spiced with fried onions, sev (deep fried and spiced gram flour) and coriander leaves.
Finished with hot Jalebis, swirls of syrup-doused concoctions fried in sinful quantities of ghee. 
A tremendous variety of baskets, intricately woven by tribal artisans out of bamboo (the name Bastar comes from baans, which means bamboo) can be picked up at the weekly haats. 
Woven for purposes such as fishing, catching birds, storing grain and filtering liquor. 
You will not find such craftsmanship anywhere else. 
Most appealing are the square baskets fashioned by the Bansors (basketeers), who paint colouful animal and human figures on the chequered surfaces. 
One of the most amazing lights that you will come across in the depths of the forests are long cocoons hung from trees branches to dry. 
Ensconced in them are tussar silk caterpillars, which are fed on saja and arjuna trees and then taken to the Kosa Silk Farm in Jagdalpur.
In Kosa Silk Farm, the silken cocoon threads are spun into the gorgeous and famous Bastar Kosa saris.
The Dupattas, cotton saris and other fabrics woven by Bastar’s artisans are distinguished by their blod tribal motifs in natural dyes. 
You can really cut a dash with these. 
Stark, black and ingeniously crafted into unlikely shapes, the world-famous wrought iron artifacts of Bastar possess a strange, primitive beauty that you will never see elsewhere. 
Whether it’s a figurine of a hunter in frozen motion or something as mundane a garden chair. 
You will want to take home one of these creations. 
Wood from Bastar’s teak and sal forests are shaped into richly carved wooden idols, masks with tribal motifs, wall panels and furniture that you can pick up by the dozen along the road. 
Especially attractive are the unusual diwans, ornamented with vivid depictions of Bastar life.
The finely handcrafted ornaments sold in Bastar’s haat. 
Peacock feathers  would wound with bamboo and vividly colored glass beads to make gorgeous necklaces, iron twisted into chulky bracelets embellished with stylized figures, waist belts made of cowrie shells and so much more. 
The ornamental metal or wood combs in animal or bird shapes make great souvenirs. 
Arrestingly  fashioned into elephants, horses, deer, masks and human figures by the hot wax casting technique known as dhokra, the metal artifacts of Baster are recognized the world over.
With their elongated, twisted forms, they are reminiscent of Indus Valley Civilization artifacts.
Potters to create beautiful horses, tortoise, elephants, bells, decorative pots and urns, ashtrays and penholders gather Clay from the Indravati riverbed. 
Darjeeling, with its unending stretches of fragrant tea garden, is a decadent reminder of times past. 
Full of little hideaways, old and luxurious tea estate, and winding roads offering amazing view, Darjeeling possesses a charm of its very own. 
Even though it’s one of the most popular destinations in India, it is still possible to make it your own. 
A ride on the famous narrow gauge Toy Train, which has been declared a World Heritage Site, will show off its landscape at its best.
For those seeking peace and quiet, away from the madding crowds, there are several beautiful Tibetan monasteries holding ancient treasures, Japanese temples, and stunning sunrises over the snowy Khangchendzonga.
Visit Mirid to walk through gardens strewn with flowers and thick forests.
Perfect in any season, Darjeeling is the stuff dreams are made of.
Give in to its allure, and have an enchanted stay. 
Windarmere Hotel, the grand dame of Darjeeling started out as a humble boarding house for English bachelors. 
Just before World War II it was turned into a hotel with large rooms, deep fireplaces and baize billiard tables. 
Today it is reinvented as a heritage hotel, pricey and exclusive. 
Perched on Observatory Hill, it offers a spectacular view; watch the winding roads, or glimpse the Kanchenjunga from your bathtub.
You can also treat yourself to an impressive afternoon tea, accompanied by a string quartet or pianist. 
Authentic down to its creaking floorboards, the Planter’s Club offers you a charming glimpse into tea garden luxury. 
The cannon on the front porch looks out onto the Mall, while stuffed antlered heads stare down at visitors from wooden plaques fighting for space on the walls.
At one happy time, the Club was the meeting place for every planter in the whole of the Dooars. 
Today, it takes in guests from all over the country as temporary members, so you have no excuse to miss out.
Glenary’s is extremely popular and usually crowded. 
The restaurant upstairs is famed for its delicious tandoori fare, while The Buzz in the basement holds jam sessions.
The master baker’s place is where everyone heads for tea or coffee and pastries all day. 
The windows in the tearooms are designed to catch the afternoon sun and frame the view down into the valley. 
It may have simple décor, but you’ll find the best Tibetan food in town at Kunga. 
Its delicious momos and gyathuk  and bhagthuk soup are legendary.
If you’re around for breakfast, drop in for its simple, filling and absolutely yummy muesli and fruit yoghurt.
Treat yourself to a hearty breakfast of bacon and sausages, accompanied by steaming lemon tea, on the rooftop at Keventer’s. 
Kanchenjunga might reveal herself from under a veil of clouds.
The restaurant faces the planter’s club and under its awning, you will find people gathering to feast all day, sometimes starting from dawn! 
Glenburn tea estate, the path to this tea eatate might challenge a mountain goat, but no one’s complaining. 
Glenburn is one of the tea gardens in Darjeeling to take in guests. 
The rooms are named and themes to match- the Rose has sheets and pillowcases embroidered with roses, for example-and have splendid mountain views and cane furniture.
Go fishing or boating in the river, and take along a picnic badket.
Remember to slip in the hotel’s scrumptious brownies for a treat. 
Darjeeling is Bengal’s dream.
For hospitality, nothing beats the Mayfair and Windamere hotels. 
Savour the silences of late afternoon and watch the hills to by from the Toy Train.
I’m not much of a shopper, but I like the handicrafts in Darjeeling.  
I never leave without some of Keventer’s chocolates.