At the Draupadi Ghat evidence of habitation and artifacts dating from 1100 till 800 BC were recovered.
Remains from the Kushana era (1 st century AD) have been found around the site of the Bharadwaj Ashram little remains of this ancient epoch in the history of this town. 
The Muslims annexed Allahabad in 1194, but the foundations of the modern city were laid by Mughal Emperor Akbar in 1575. 
Named Illahabas, the city acquired its grand fort over looking the Sangam in 1583. 
It is in this fort that Khusrau, the son of Emperor Jahangir fought to gain control of the throne and was first imprisoned and then killed in 1615 by his brother Shah Jahan.
In 1801, the British annexed the city and its fort, establishing colonial rule for the next 150 years.
After the Mutiny of 1857, the British shifted the headquarters of the Northwestern provinces to Allahabad.
Lord Canning announced the transfer of power to the crown in 1858 in this city.
In the subsequent years Allahabad witnessed some important events in the freedom struggle.
Home to Pandit Motilal Nehru, one of the most important leaders of the movement, Allahabad hosted the first Indian National Congress in 1885.
 Mahatma Gandhis call for a mass movement against imperialist rule was launched as the Quit India Movement from Allahabad in 1920.
 In subsequent years Motilal Nehru’s son Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru spearheaded the struggle to its conclusion from Anand Bhavan; the residence that has now been converted into a museum.
Believe the hype Uttar Pradesh is full of irresistible textiles and crafts.
The sector has steadily opened up to privatized participation, which has bolstered the services and performance of state run entities too.
Multinational banks have a few branches in Lucknow; both they and Indian banks offer ATM facilities so any time money is yours for the asking.
Credit cards are accepted in the larger hotels; restaurants and commercial establishments in the cities but only cash will do in the smaller towns of the state.
In the smaller towns of Uttar Pradesh, banking options will be of a strictly limited nature, restricted to minor branches of government banks that do not offer many facilities and are unlikely to change currency other than dollars and pound sterling.
Also the paperwork might run into reams if the bank is yet to computerize.
Major international credit cards are widely accepted in the hotels and major shops.
Changing money in India can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time.
Not all banks accept traveler’s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it.
Lucknow, Agra and Benares have exchange bureaus where you can exchange money; most main city branches of Indian banks will exchange money and cash traveler’s cheques.
Save up all exchange receipts (encashment certificates); these are required for visa extensions and other formalities, and when you want to convert rupees at the end of your trip.
Uttar Pradesh is an important centre of industry in the country.
All official transactions and meetings are held in Lucknow, the administrative capital while Kanpur is an important industrial and commercial centre.
Agra and Varanasi are also major centers of the huge tourism industry.
Varanasi has a huge export industry based on carpets made in the Mirzapur Bhadhoi belt and in silk and brocade fabrics.
Most business travelers find doing business in Uttar Pradesh an exercise in frustration as the bureaucratic red tape slows things down as far as possible, the labor base is sluggish and unprofessional and prone to a lot of union activities.
Power is forever in short supply and on the whole, a healthy business environment is sadly lacking.
But for those determined to play the business game in Uttar Pradesh, here are a few pointers.
With increasing liberalization at both the economic level and at the societal level, business protocol adheres to western standards.
You’ll most likely be asked questions about family and home not because anybody wants to pry but because many Indians believe that curiosity conveys concern.
There are many women executives, often top level management.
Some however, are still conservative, so to make sure you don’t misstep, are sensitive to how the lady greets you and respond accordingly.
Allahabad is divided in two distinct halves by the railway station with the orderly grid patterned Civil Lines and adjoining districts forming the central and northern parts.
The old city spreads along the eastern banks of the River Yamuna.
Lying 7 kms from the centre is the holiest spot in Allahabad, the Sangam (confluence).
Here the muddy brown Ganga meets the blue Yamuna and the mystical Saraswati, with a broad flood plain forming a sandy patch in between.
Devotees come for ritual bathing in the holy waters at the Sangam and priests or pandas perform special rites of worship to help them in their quest for salvation.
The road to the Sangam is lined with stalls selling various religious paraphernalia, including flowers, vermilion powder, coconuts and other offerings.
Pilgrims also come to these shores to perform the last rites of their relatives.
Boats can be hired at the main Ghat (river landing used for bathing) east of the fort and the official rate is Rs.12 per head or Rs.100 to Rs.120 for a boat.
The rate invariably goes up during peak season, especially during the fairs at the Sangam.
To the south of the Sangam along the Yamuna lies the Saraswati Ghatand close by on the banks of the Yamuna is the new, dedicated to Lord Shiva.
The fort is occupied by the Indian army and therefore much of its lies out of bounds to the public.
There are three gateways into the fort, which is surrounded by a 7 meter wall.
You get the full impact of this impressive structure from boats on the river.
The areas open to the public are the, an underground temple believed to have been visited by Rama, the hero of Ramayana and an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.
The venerable old banyan tree, supposedly indestructible, sits in a protected space within the temple.
Mentioned by the 7 th century Chinese traveler Hiuen Tsang, this tree is considered sacred and devotees would jump from it to gain Moksha  (salvation).
The Well of Saraswati is believed to be the source of the elusive river Saraswati lies inside the Fort.
Close to the fort's main entrance is the polished sandstone, 10. 6 meters high and dating from 242 BC. 
The pillar was brought from the Buddhist site of Kausambi by Emperor Akbar and has the edicts of Emperor Ashoka inscribed on it.
It also carries an inscription in Persian declaring Jahangirs accession to the Mughal throne.
To visit the Fort, you will need to get permission from the Commandant at the Ordnance Depot inside.
Painted a bright vermilion red, the color associated with Hanuman, the temple houses a reclining image of the god.
During the monsoons when the Ganga floods its banks, the temple gets submerged.
A towering 130 feet structure called the houses images of important Hindu Saints and divinities.
The site of the ancient Bhardwaj Ashram, said to have been visited by Lord Rama on his way to the forest now lies in the centre of the city.
The ashram once housed nearly 10,000 students who studied under the tutelage of Sage Bhardwaj.
A memorial in the park commemorates the proclamation of the assumption of rule by the British crown, announced by Lord Canning in 1858. 
To the south of the Allahabads main railway station lie the Mughal gardens known as Khusrau Bagh.
Dedicated to Khusrau, the rebel son of Emperor Jahangir, the garden holds his mausoleum.
The simple sandstone tomb completed in 1622 lies next to that of Khusraus mother’s double storeyed burial chamber.
Beyond is another tomb believed to contain the remains of Khusraus sister.
The colonial area laid out in grid pattern during the mid19th century holds remnants of the Raj era.
They include the Uttar Pradesh High Court, the All Saints Cathedral and Allahabad University.
The 19th century All Saints Cathedral popularly known as Patthar Girjaghar (stone church) is a towering Gothic structure that still holds prayers and Sunday Mass.
Designed by Sir William Emerson, the architect of the Victoria Memorial in Calcutta, the outstanding feature of this church is its vivid stained glass windows.
The white marble exteriors are faced in red stone and the altar displays fine marble inlay work.
A memorial tower stands within the park.
The library has a collection of some 75,000 books besides historical manuscripts and journals.
The grounds of the museum have a display of ancient sculptures, while the interior houses a collection of ancient terra cottas and stone sculptures.
A remarkable image amongst the exhibits is a 12th century Shiva Parvati from Khajuraho.
The museum also exhibits ancient coins, traditional Rajasthani miniature paintings and works of some modern artists including Jamini Roy and Nicholas Roerich.
The other sections of the museum include a portion devoted to natural history where stuffed birds and animals are in residence and a gallery on the independence movement with a good collection of photographs and historical documents.
North of the Museum is the 19th century Allahabad University with its Indo Saracenic buildings.
Among the most prominent colonial buildings within the campus is the Muir College, now housing the Science Faculty, built in 1874 by Sir William Emerson.
A quadrangle within has tall ornate arches and a 61meter tower crested with domes.
The tower was built in ochre stone brought from Mirzapur, while the floors are made of marble and mosaic.
The domes are covered with blue and white glazed tiles from the town of Multan, now in Pakistan.
The Mayo Memorial Hall, built in 1879, had a 180 feet tower.
Decorated by Professor Gamble of the South Kensington Museum in London, the hall commemorated Lord Mayo and was built to host public meetings, receptions and balls.
About a kilometer from the Museum is the sprawling, an elaborate Victorian building set amid well laid out lawns.
Home of Pandit Motilal Nehru and his son Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, this house has now been turned into a museum Memorabilia of the Nehru family are displayed here.
The old section of the Anand Bhawan called was donated to the nation in 1930 by Pandit Motilal Nehru.
Swaraj Bhawan was used as headquarters of the Congress Party.
Indira Gandhi, the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru and later Prime Minister of India was born here.
Within the grounds of Anand Bhawan is the Jawahar Planetarium Running four shows in Hindi in a day, the planetarium is of special interest for stargazers.
The alpine meadows or bugyal of Chipla kot lay 30 kms beyond Munsiyari.
The small town is also a base for treks to Milam, Ralam and Namik glaciers and expeditions to the Panchuli peaks.
You can also equip yourself with mountaineering or trekking gear from the specialty stores in town.
Climate Almora is renowned for its salubrious atmosphere that helped revive ailing visitors.
Summers are pleasant with bright sunlight and low night temperatures.
Almora gets extremely cold in winters, October- March with temperatures falling well below 1°C, but June to August is wet, when the monsoons arrive in full fury.
ALMORA Spread over a horseshoe ridge at a height of 1,646 meters is Almora, once the centre of Kumaoni culture and the capital of the Chand dynasty.
To the north of the ridge is a breathtaking view of the trident shaped Trishul peaks.
On the edges of Almora the Koshi and Suyal rivers cut through the mountains, while the hill sides are lined with fir and pine forests.
Away from the main tourist humdrum of Nainital or Ranikhet, Almora has retained much of its traditional values and old world charm.
 One of the few hill stations that predated the British, the town still has cobbled streets and fascinating stone houses with exquisite carved wooden facades.