The founding of present day Bangalore is attributed to the Magadi Chieftain, Kempe Gowda, who laid its foundations in 1537.
However that may be, the founding of the city is traced back to 1537 and it has seen the rule of the maharajas of Mysore mainly. 
One of the factors that have gone in to make Bangalore the fifth largest city in India today is its mild and healthy climate. 
A large number of people, many from outside the region have thus made the city their permanent home. 
Thus the city has a fairly large number of people who are retired from active life and others who are here for exclusive pleasure seeking.
Often termed as a garden city, Bangalore's climate has also drawn towards itself a large number of industries like the HAL and the Indian Telephone Industry and has become Image a premier manufacturing and commercial centre since the 1950s.
Amidst all this hectic activity, the city offers itself as an ideal base to explore the fascinating and culturally rich state of Karnataka. 
Visitors will find the ruins of the once powerful Vijayanagar Empire, the sculpted wonders of Belur and Halebid, the awesome mausoleum of Bijapur and much more within easy reach. 
The city by itself offers extensive shopping opportunities, a rich fanfare of cuisine, hotels to suit all pockets and much cultural and other entertainment. 
A city of love and warmth, sorrow and despair, dreams and hopes, poverty and squalor, grandeur and glory, Calcutta is compelling, effervescent, teeming with life and traditions a medley of moods, styles, cultures, politics, industry and commerce.
More than 300 years ago, Job Charnock, an English tradesman set up a trading post on the banks of the Ganga along the three-village nucleus.
Gradually Europeans started setting up business and trade establishments, the moneyed class taking interest in banking and usury. 
The fate of the Nawabi rule was sealed in the Battle of Plassey and the English went ahead to seize power, a grip which loosened only 250 years later when power was transferred from the British Empire to the Indians.
Independent India has crossed 50 years and these five decades have seen many miracles. 
Calcutta has grown, remains a city of contrasts, a mix-up of light and shade, a strange medley of ancient and modern, skyscrapers and Victorian edifices, heaven of the rich and the poor as seldom found anywhere in the world. 
There is so much to see in this incredible city. 
A million people from every corner of India stream across the massive Howrah Bridge, swarm around the Hooghly river, flock along the busy avenues, through its narrow lanes. 
Then you arrive at the great expanse of the Maidan, the heart of Calcutta.
Fort William, Victoria Memorial, Raj Bhavan, Palladian villas and the Botanical Gardens, the busy streets of Shyambazar, College Street and Kalighat, bookshops, art galleries, coffee houses   all are part of Calcutta's varied and vibrant shades, the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore and cradle of the Indian Renaissance.
Calcutta's fascination defies analysis; it is an addiction, an affair of the mind and heart.
Anyone who has lived here can never be happy anywhere else in the world.
Chennai, the largest city in southern India located on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal, Chennai Beach Image developed after 1639 when the British East India Company established a fort and trading post at the small fishing village of Chennai.
Over the past three and a half centuries, the small fishing village has grown into a bustling metropolis which is especially known for its spaciousness which is lacking in other Indian cities. 
This characteristic is exemplified by the long esplanade called the Marina and which is lined by impressive buildings which remind the casual visitor of the long and inseparable association the city has had with the British.
Even elsewhere in the city, one cannot fail to notice the dominant British influences in the form of old cathedrals, buildings in the Indo-Saracenic style of architecture, wide tree lined avenues.
However, though the English legacy is undeniable, Chennai has continued to be a centre which has blended the foreign influence with the traditional Tamil-Hindu culture. 
As a city it continues to maintain the best of south Indian traditions. 
This is not surprising because the region was an important centre of Pallavan culture long before the British came here and the traces of which are to be found in the numerous old temple. 
Image Thus, the unwary visitor will find Chennai more than just a gateway of South India.
He shall find it a convenient base to peep into the varied aspects of traditional south Indian culture and life styles which inter- mingle with the modern city complete with its plush hotels and restaurants- offering a range of continental and typical, south Indian cuisine, long and uncrowned stretches of beaches, modern shopping centers which offer traditional handicrafts, textiles and much more peculiar to this part of India.
Besides the modern city itself, there are several interesting towns like Mamallapuram and Kanchipuram, each with a rich collection of ancient temples and an array of traditional handicrafts which are very much their own. 
Sprawling on the banks of the river Yamuna, Delhi, Bahai Temple the capital of India, typifies the soul of the country. 
In time the city conceals within its bosom annals of civilizations that flourished for more than three thousand years. 
Indraprastha, according to legends, the city founded by the Pandavas in the times of the epic Mahabharata (circa 1500 B.C.), was located near the Old Fort that stands on a large mound overlooking the river.
Qutab Minar Since those early days many dynasties and rulers flourished on its regal soil. 
The legacy of that past survives in the many monuments left behind by the regents, each a chronicle of the glory of its time and an imprint of the character of the ruler. 
Today, the city is a curious blend of the modern and traditional, skyscrapers, beautiful gardens and wide tree-lined avenues perpetuate the Mughal passion of landscaping and architectural excellence. 
More important, however, Delhi blends within its folds the great cultural variety of India; an unceasing range of activity, a million ways of saying 'You are Welcome'.
Mumbai a cluster of seven islands derives its name from Mumbadevi, the patron goddess of the Koli fisher folk, its oldest inhabitants. Mumbai Image.
Once a Portuguese princess' dowry and later an adornment of neo-gothic British architecture, Mumbai today, is more than just a metropolis. 
It is in fact an enigma of mud huts & sky- scrapers, age old traditions & high fashions, the industrialists' heaven & movie makers' Hollywood.
A lovely natural harbor and winding creek set off the city of Mumbai from the long, narrow coast of Western India.
Mumbai is a city that is disciplined by no time frame-neither by day nor night.
 Mumbai is also the country's financial powerhouse, the nation's industrial heartland, and its economic nerve centre. 
Dazzling shopping arcades, exciting sport activity, night clubs and discotheques, theatre and music, gourmet restaurants and interesting sightseeing - Mumbai offers the visitor a heady mix of all this and more.
The city of the thousand-headed Anantha, the holy serpent on which Lord Vishnu reclines, Thiruvananthapuram is one of the most beautiful cities of India. 
Perched on undulating terrain of low coastal hills near the southern edge of the Indian mainland, clean and green, Thiruvananthapuram, which was previously called Trivandrum, is an ancient city with trading tradition dating back to 1000 BC.
The city is also a welcome departure from other large cities of India in its spacious layout and regulated life. 
Now the Capital of one of the most fascinating states of India, Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram is an important entry point into India with communication links to Maldives, Sri Lanka and many countries to the West of Arabian Sea.
It is also an excellent base to explore the interiors of Kerala, the southernmost region of India, and from Kochi, the Lakshadweep Islands. 
The city offers all modern facilities needed by a visitor and is a centre for cultural activities.
India Offers a wide range of adventure sports for tourists. 
Trekking and Skiing in the Himalayas, White Water Rafting on the Ganges and Beas, Camel and Jeep safaris in the deserts of Rajasthan, Paragliding in Himachal, Watersports in Goa and Scuba Diving in Lakshadweep and Andaman are just some of the options available to the adventure seeking tourists.
Soaring High Coniferous forests and flower meadows welcome the trekker. 
And the rapids of snow-fed rivers are ideal for white water rafting.
Lakshadweep offers excellent wind surfing, snorkeling and scuba diving in the crystal clear waters of the lagoons which surround each island. 
Udayagiri Caves The history of Indian architecture begins in the 3rd millennium BC. 
The Indian architecture tradition is the living vital art from assimilating in it the influence of the various dynasties which ruled over it.
The Buddhist Stupas are the earliest architectural monuments that date back to 230-500 AD. 
The Jains have also left an indelible mark on the Indian architecture, which is visible in the exquisite sculpture Sun Temple at ancient Palitana, Ajanta, Ellora, and Mount Abu. 
The Hindu temples with profuse carvings and the imposing gopurams of the Southern temples are an eloquent testimony to the fine art of Indian architecture.
 Mughals brought their fine arches, perfect domes and filigree culminating in the perfection of the Taj Mahal at Agra. 
The British influences are visible in all the presidency towns of Mumbai, Calcutta, Chennai and New Delhi. 
Architecture in India is a pulsating art from which continues even today.
From Siddharth to Sakyamuni and finally to the Buddha Bodhgaya or the Enlightened One, an incredible transformation of a prince to an enlightened teacher, who walked the earth more than 2500 years ago.
The Buddhist circuit is a pilgrim's passage through the places immortalized by the Enlightened One. The highlight of your journey will be the Holy Bodhi tree at Bodhgaya under which he gained enlightenment.
Visit Sarnath where he gave his first sermon and Kushinagar where he attained Parinirvana. 
Buddhist Temple at Kushinagar And among the ruins of Nalanda you can still hear a distant echo of the chants of scholars of ancient times. 
Rajgir, Kusumbi, Kushinagar, Sravasti and Vaishali are other important Buddhist sites covered under the Buddhist circuit in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
Your journey promises joy, serenity and a deeper understanding of one of the greatest thinkers of India.
The mystique of the desert beckons of the wild caressed sand dunes, where rise the three splendid cities of Jodhpur, Desert Festival Bikaner and Jaisalmer-the ancient relics of glorious past.
Isolated in time-wrap, yet reverberating with golden legacies of romance and valor.
The royal edifices take you to the magnificence of the bygone era. 
Junagarh Fort Turbaned men with proud moustaches and veiled beauties in colored attires and heavy jewellery, overwhelm with their cheerfulness. 
And the romance heightens, as camels majestically wend their way through the golden sands.
Most enticing is the sight of Gair and fire dancers, swaying in the sands, their steps matching the rhythm of enchanting melodies that drift in the air. 
A 3,500 Km long and a towering 8,848 meter high divine legend garland India and the subcontinent. 
Across five Indian states spread the mighty Himalayas are compressed in this expanse is the widest monotonic geographical variety.
Green Valley in Arunachal Wide sweeping valleys and deep gorges give way to thick deciduous forests and alpine meadows, undulating tea gardens and somber slopes, bar narrow terraces, looking like gigantic staircases flung down the mountains, gently contoured hills and imposing, snow draped peaks surrounded by a fluff of clouds look down upon thundering rivers and deeply fissured glaciers.
Down in the South Marine Life and the Eastern Ghats the communion with nature is in the Nilgiri Ranges having its own unique appeal.
The growing number of visitors queuing up to experience the uniqueness of the Himalayas, it is essential to protect its fragile environmental balance. 
India was once a collection of princely kingdoms Mysore Palace where feudal traditions still carry on amidst forts and palace hotels. 
Jaipur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Bikaner in the state of Rajasthan were stronghold of hill forts and series of palaces. 
Mysore in Karnataka also has a profusion of palaces and enchanting Havelis. 
The Mughals in Northern India have given to India several fascinating forts and palaces.
A journey through the hill resorts Hills in Arunachal Pradesh of India promises a deep and refreshing communion with nature in its varying beauty. 
The lush river valleys surrounded by snow-caped peaks, the fruit-laden orchards, gurgling streams and dense forests that echo with birdsong, evoke enchantment and delight.
The misty dawn on mountains creating magnificent landscapes extend to the entire north-eastern states whose natural beauty has earned them the sobriquet of 'seven sisters' covering Assam, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and Meghalaya. 
Tea Gardens at Munnar The other hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir provides a breathtaking variety of the Himalayan splendor. 
The Nilgiris in the south have the picturesque Anantagiri, Udhagamandalam, Madikeri and Munnar. Mount Abu in Rajasthan, Panchgani in Madhya Pradesh, Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra are the other hill resorts for quiet sojourn.
The land of the tiger and the elephant, the peacock and the rhinoceros, Tiger at Corbett Park India's wildlife is a delight for the nature lover. 
The wildlife parks and sanctuaries spread across the country, offer a fascinating diversity of terrain, flora and fauna.
India has preserved vast tracts of forests and habitats in its 80 National Parks and 441 Wildlife Sanctuaries. 
So wherever you are traveling in India, take a break and visit a wildlife park and see some of India's abundance of animals and birds.
In northern India, Corbett National Musk DeerPark and Dudhwa National Park in Uttar Pradesh, Kanha National Park and Bandhavgarh National Park in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan's Ranthambore National Park and Sariska Tiger Reserve, are all the home of the magnificent predator-the tiger. 
These also have varieties of deer including the antlered Barasingha and a range of lesser cats, Lion at Sasangir mammals and birds.  
As the sun rises over a holy river or the sea, the air echoes to the pilgrims' chant of mantras. Lingaraja Temple an eternal dawn ritual asking for the benediction of the Gods.
Discover the ancient roots of religion in these age-old cities. Where religion is more than an act of worship: it is a way of life.
At Prayag, take a dip at the holy confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and Saraswati rivers: while Varanasi is a city that sings our prayers to Lord Shiva.
From the tumultuous sea of Puri and Konark, Rath Yatra at Puri the pilgrims wend their way to the Jagannath Temple and the exquisite Sun Temple.