Being the tallest temple (65 meters) in Orissa, Jagannath temple is one of the most magnificent pieces of monuments of India.
The fine white sands of Puri beach and the roar of the breakers rolling in from the Bay of Bengal have fascinated visitors throughout the years.
With excellent hotels and guesthouses, the Puri beach is an ideal holiday spot.
Bhubaneswar is the nearest airport, 62kms away, with regular flights to Delhi, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Mumbai.
Puri has direct train service to and from Calcutta, New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Vishakhapatnam, Vijayawada, and Tirupati.
Punjab suffered the most destruction and damage at the time of Partition of India.
Prior to partition the Punjab extended across both sides of what are now the India-Pakistan border, and its capital.
The major city in Punjab is Amritsar, the holy city of the Sikhs. Chandigarh, a new planned city, was concieved and built in the 1950s to serve as the capital of new Punjab.
In 1966, Punjab under went another split; it was divided into the predominantly Sikh and Punjabi- speaking state of Punjab and the state of Haryana.
Chandigarh on the border of Punjab and Haryana, remains the capital of the two states, yet is administered as a Union Territory from Delhi. 
Visit the Golden temple the sacred Sikh sanctuary, marbled, bronzed covered with gold leaf wherein the Guru Granth Sahib- The Bible of the Sikhs is placed reverently.
Also see the Community Kitchen where 10000 pilgrims are fed daily on voluntary and complementary basis.
Visit the historic Jallianwala Bagh where Gen. Dyer's bullets killed scores of innocent Indians and the beautiful Ram Bagh Gardens.
Fatehgarh Sahib is a great tirath of Sikhs, it has a serene and majestic commemorative Gurudwara in the memory of the two younger sons of the 10th Guru, Guru Gobind Singh.
At a distsnce of a few paces from the Gurudwara lies the magnificent Rauza of Hazrat Mujadid AIif Saani Sheikh Ahmed Faruqui.
Aam Khas Bagh is a Mughal monument, initially built by Babar and re-built by Emperor Shah Jehan.
Modern industrial city of Jalandhar is famous for its sportsmen as well as sports goods industry.
The monuments of interest in Jalandhar include 800-year-old Imam Nasir's Mausoleum, Devi Talab, a tank (200-year-old) and 400-year-old Juma Masjid, another tourist attraction is Shiva Mandir dating back to the Lodhi era.
18 km from Jalandhar, is Kapurthala, believed to have been built in the 13th century, the city has a Panch Mandir, a Hindu Temple built by a Sikh and a famous mosque designed by a French architect in the Moorish style.
Ludhiana is another prominent industrial city of Punjab known for its hosiery and woollen garments sold in prestigious shopping stores all over the world.
Patiala was the capital of erstwhile princely state of Patiala, with magnificent forts, palaces and gardens, the city is said to have been founded in 1756 by Baba Ala Singh.
The Moti Bagh Palace, built in 19th century, is patterned after the famous Shalipaar Gardens of Lahore.
Near Patiala is Beer Moti Bagh sanctuary where Neelgai, Black Buck and Wild Boar can be spotted easily. 
Situated on the left bank of river Sutlej at a distance of 41 km from Ropar is Anandpur Sahib, it was here that Guru Gobind Singh baptized the first five Sikhs called the Panch Pyaras.
Bhakra Dam is symbolic of resurgent India's plenty and prosperity. 
Here stands the highest gravity dam in the world which controls the turbulent waters of Sutlej river for irrigation and power generation.
Indian Airlines connect Chandigarh with Delhi, Jammu, Srinagar and Leh.
Chandigarh, the terminus of Northern Railway, is connected with Mumbai, Delhi, Kalka and other major cities in India.
Regular bus services connect Chandigarh with Amritsar, Delhi, Dharamshala, Kulu, Manali, Nangal, Pathankot and Shimla.
Chandigarh is a union territory and is directly under the administration of the Indian government.
Chandigarh is one of the youngest cities in India and the main languages spoken are Hindi and Punjabi.
The town derives its name from Goddess Chandi Devi whose temple stands 15 km form Chandigarh.
One of the few modern planned cities in India, Chandigarh is divided into 47 self-contained sectors.
Architects Albert Mayer and Mathew Novicki drew the initial plans for Chanigarh in New York and when the latter died in an air crash in 1950, the work was entrusted to Le Corbusier, a well-known architect and planner.
One can see architectural genius in the neat geometrical design of residential quarters, reinforced concrete structures and self-contained area layouts.
Each sector of the city is designed with its own shops, academic, and health care buildings, and places of worship, open spaces, greenery and the residential areas.
The city is divided into four major work areas, in the north, the capital complex, consisting of the Secretariat, Legislative Assembly and High Court, with the hills as a background dominating the city.
Sector 17, which is the city and district centre, housing the administrative and state government offices, shopping malls, banks and other offices.
The west contains the university, and institutions of engineering, architecture, Asian studies and medicine. 
Finally the east zone, which is the industrial area of the city.
A good time to visit the Chandigarh is after the rains, from September to November.
The Open Hand Monument, a symbol of harmony and peace, is situated in Sector 1 along the main road leading into the city.
The best time to visit the Open Hand Monument in the early evening, there is no entrance fee to the monument grounds.
The metal monument is 14 meters high and weighs 50 tons, the amazing thing about this monument is that it still rotates smoothly about its bearings.
Nek Chand's Rock Garden is probably Chandigarh's premier attraction, a popular spot for tourists.
It was created by Nek Chand Saini, a resident of the city, in 1958,  he used discarded objects of everyday use like bottles, tin cans, broken plugs, plates, saucers and rocks from the nearby Shivalik mountains to create a 40-acre fantasy labyrinth garden with arched walkways, streams, bridges, grottos, battlements, turrets and sculptures of people and animals.
The park is open daily from April to September between 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 to 7 p.m. Between October and March; it is open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 to 6 p.m.
Also in Sector 1, the Sukhna Lake is an artificial reservoir, a popular place to hang out, one can expect to find residents of the city jogging or strolling along the banks.
The Sukhna Lake was created in 1958 by damming the Sukhna Choe, a seasonal stream that flows down from the Shivaliks.
Storks and cranes make migratory stops at the lake and the lake incidentally, has Asia's longest water channel for rowing and yachting.
Capital Complex area, with its monumental public buildings is the site of architects Le Corbusier's most ambitious experiments.
The concrete campus and its accompanying lawns are meant to express the strength and unity of independent India.
For tourists, the High Court and the Open Hand Monument are more accessible than the Legislative Assembly and the Secretariat.
 The linear Leisure Valley was sculpted from a dried riverbed; it is over 8 km long and runs through most of Chandigarh.
The valley consists of several segments, each with its own theme. Flower gardens, jogging tracks and tennis courts dot the trail.
There's even an open-air theatre and a sculpture park in the sector 10 section of the Valley.
One of three museums clustered in Sector 10, the Government Museum and Art Gallery contains a modest collection of Indian stone sculptures, miniature paintings and modern art.
The miniature paintings belong to the Mughal, Rajasthani and Kangra schools of art while the sculptures are from the Gandharva school of art.
Located in sector 17 B, Nrityagram gallery was inaugurated in September 1977 it is filled with portraits of Indian freedom fighters, rare documents and recordings of the voices of prominent figures of India's Independence movement.
The Nrityagram gallery also contains photographs and facsimiles of original writings, sculptures and ceramic murals.
The Punjab Kala Kendra is the office of the Punjab Arts Council (Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi), exhibitions are frequently organized in its large galleries and the Council's permanent collection of contemporary art is also on display here.
Inaugurated on 14 August 1973, Museum of the Evolution of Life (Science Museum) is famous for a large gallery that depicts the origin of the earth and the evolution of life.
International Dolls Museum Situated in Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, and the international dolls museum contains more than 300 dolls from nearly every country in the world.
There is a three-day extravaganza, organized in the last week of February, known earlier as Rose Festival, it was intended to encourage people to walk through the Rose Garden and enjoy the beauty of roses.
The festival features performances of music and dance, both classical and folk, flower shows, events for children, exhibitions by local artists, photographers and craftsman and a wide range of other activities.
April Fools' Day is a unique gathering of various poets from all over the country at Chandigarh.
Even those who do not ordinarily enjoy poetry look forward to the 'Maha Moorkh Sammelan', or 'Conclave of Colossal Fools'. Chandigarh is the only city in India that hosts such a gathering.
In June, mango growers from all over India are invited to enter their prize fruits in the various competitions; visitors to the fair can see and taste all the traditional varieties of the fruit as well as the latest hybrids from the agricultural universities.
Chandigarh is well linked with its principal gateway city, Delhi, by frequent super fast trains.
Indian Airlines and Jet Airways connect Chandigarh to Delhi and Amritsar with regular flights.
Madras, or Chennai as it is now called, is known as the Gateway of Southern India.
The East India Company developed Chennai as one of the major trading centers in India.
Chennai has a blend of Dravidian and Gothic architecture in its buildings and the city might have grown but it has never lost its traditional grace and charm.
Chennai is the epitome of tradition, culture and life-style of Southern India, but like the rest of India, Chennai has over the years, developed its share of urban style and modernity.
It is very likely that the temples that you will visit in Chennai are unlike any other that you have seen before.
Visit the 4.5 km long Golden Marina beach, one of the longest beaches in the world.
Unlike Mumbai, the Chennai port is not a natural harbor, nevertheless, this man-made port is very modern and efficient in handling cargo and other traffic.
Today Chennai is the fourth largest city in India and commands a major share in the trade from the South.
Chennai has a very hot tropical climate, the temperature variation between winters and summers is minimal.
As such Chennai has enough to offer a year round tourist season and one can visit the place any time.
Fort St. George was among the first few bastions built by the East India Company to protect its interests in India and this fortification also marks the beginning of Madras (Chennai) as a modern city.
Chennai has many temples and each one of them is worth a visit.
One of the largest and oldest temples in Chennai, the Kapaleeswarar temple has inscriptions from the 13th century A.D. and is dedicated to Lord Shiva.
The architectural style of the temple is one of the best examples of Dravidian architecture.
The walls and pillars of the temple are very delicately and intricately carved and depict scenes from Hindu mythology.
The 8th century Sri Parthasarathy Temple was built by the Pallavas and is dedicated to Lord Krishna and houses images of the five avatars (incarnations) of Vishnu.
If you like visiting places of both historical and religious interest, the Little Mount Shrine is perfect, it is said that St. Thomas lived and preached from this place.
One of the largest and best snake parks in India, the Chennai Snake Park attracts visitors of all ages.
The collection of reptiles and Indian snakes is quite amazing and one can watch the snakes being fed, their venom being removed and if one is not squeamish about snakes can touch them too.
Chennai is head quarters to the Theosophical society in India.
This place houses shrines of almost all faiths and a 95 year old library with a rare collection of books and manuscripts, many of which are written on palm leaves and parchments.
Meaning the 'Centre of Arts', the Kalakshetra was established to train people in the traditional dance form, Bharatanataym.
Equipped with fully computerised projectors to depict the world beyond earth, the Birla Planetarium is one of the most modern planetariums in the country.
A memorial to the immortal Tamil poet-saint Thiruvalluvar, this Valluvar Kottam landmark is located at Nungambakkam.
It also has an auditorium, which can accommodate 4000 people at a time and is the largest in Asia.
National Art Gallery and Government Museum has a fine collection of items in various sections of geology, archaeology, numismatics, anthropology, botany and zoology.
A site of many ancient sculptural marvels, Mamallapuram was the port city of the Pallavas.
Close to Mahabalipuram and 44 kms from Chennai is the Crocodile breeding and research centre run by Romulus Whittaker.
Muttukadu place is an ideal picnic spot with facilities for boating and wind surfing; it is 6 kms from Chennai.
Chennai Vedanthangal Bird sanctuary is one of the largest sanctuaries for birds in India.