Kanti Kapasi was working with a khadi emporium when he realized that Ahmedabad needed a comprehensive handicraft showroom that could offer the whole range of Indian crafts under one roof.
The Kapasi Handicrafts emporium was opened in 1973 at Ashram Road and has now somthing of a household name Ahemdabad.
The Kapasi showroms are also geared up to transport heavy furniture, and even air freight or ship them overseas – so those brightly painted, authentic Gujarati jhoola  need not be remain a a wistful dream.
This Parsi family home specializes in the now rare gara saris, which were once worn extensively during Parsi ceremonies and festivals. 
With their heavy pallus, deep colors and intricately embroidery motifs, they are quite lovely.
Owned by designer (and Nid alumnus) Archana Shah, Bandhej is somthing of a pilgrimage spot for Gujarat’s swish set.
Come to Bandhej for both traditional and ‘fusion’ fashion – all consistently understated and elegant.
A night market comes up every evening at Ahmedabad when colorfully dressed artisans put up their stalls on the streets outside the law garden.
With the mind boggling variety of embroidered dress materials and bedspreads and all types of curios, the night market is a one – stop – shop for speedy souvenir buying.
If buzzing flea market is your thing, also visit Ahmedabad’s Sunday market near Ellis Bridge – a good place for old books. 
Trace Gujarat’s historical and cultural evolution of through the centuries at the UNESCO world heritage site of Champaner – Pavagadh Archeological park.
Not far from the bustling city of Vadodara, a high timeless reminder of the rich historical heritage of Gujarat looms up from the dusty earth – the 800m – high Pavagadh hill, it’s ancient reddish yellow stone testifying to the fact  that it is India’s one of the oldest rock formation.
Climb to the top of the hill, and you will be confronted by the ruins of sturdy fortress built by the Rajput Kings centuries ago.
Enter and you will see a ghost city of palaces, temples residential precincts agricultural structures and water installation, each telling its fascinating story about a bygone era. 
As you stand at the summit, you will see the town of Cahmpaner below, a town that matches Pavagadh temple for temple, palace for palace, and legends for legends.
So enthralling and unique are the historical structures here, more than 114 of them in all, that they have recently been consecrated as the Champaner-Pavagarh Archeological Park, and deemed a World Heritage site by the UNESCO. 
Needless to say, Champaner-Pavagarh is like no other in the way it encapsulates the triumphs and glories, trials and tribulations of a succession of centuries.
A solid Historian will tell you Cahmpaner’s evolution can be traced so far as back as beginning of the civilization in India, with several pre – historic sites dotting the landscape around it.
The town as we see today, however came into its own only in 8th century AD, when the most famous of the Chavda Rajput Vanraj Chavada mase it his capital – according the legend, the king named the town after his friend and general Champaraj.
As one stands surrounded by the stillness of the ruins one can well imagine the town at the height of its glory as the capital of Chavdas.
A tome when royal patronage attracted thousands of artisans and architects to Cahampaner, where they stayed to build temples water tanks, landscape Gardens, and granaries to stock the bounty from each season’s harvest.
Iridescent Kingfishers, pink flamingos, pelican’s rare species of eagles and much more, Gujarat is sure to delight bird watchers from all over the world.
Due to its many wetlands and its strategic location on the north south bird migratory path, Gujarat is a birder’s paradise.
The nearest Airport to Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary is Ahmedabad (60km); the closest airport to the little Rann of Kutch is Ahmedabad (105 km) take atrain to Dhrangadhra (22 km), and hire a cab.  
The colors and texture of Gujarat are at their most varied and vibrant in the districts of Kutch, where embroidery thrives as an intricate, precious art.
Guajrat has a rich tradition of producing fine handicrafts such as textiles, furniture and jewellary, but nowhere is this impressive heritage morea evident than in Kutch, aland occupied by nomadic tribes who have refined their craft, especially embroidery into fine arts.
A full – day tour around Bhuj is a good way to shop for embroidered fabrics, as you can watch the craftsmen at work get pieces customized and ensure that the benefits are going to the needy artisans.
There are various techniques of embroidery that exists in the district, including those of Hindu groups like the Rabaris and the Ahirs, Islamic pastoral groups like the Jaths, Halepotras and Muthwas, theSodha Rajputs who migrated from the Thar Parkar region of Sindh, and the Meghwal Harijans.
Each tribe developed its own signatures style and this is most apparent in the case of embroidery.
If you prefer simple needlework, you are sure to like Bavalia embroidery which employs the button hole or cross stitch method.
If brilliant colors and mirror work appeals to you, then the bright red and yellows of Banni embroidery is what you should go for.
The embroidery of Rabaris is inlaid with triangular square and almond shaped mirrors, which lends it that gorgeous richness. 
Ahir embroiders create geometric and floral motifs interspersed with striking mirror work, the Jaths use chainstitch with tiny mirrors, the Sodha Rajputs are skilled in delicate soof embroidery, while the Hali Putras and Rasipotra herds people produce mukka embroidery.
Stop at Hodka, which offers an insight into a cross section of embroidery as well as other crafts like the rare Ragan – painted fabrics – stay at the NGO-run Shaam – e – Sarhad Rural Resort, all mud huts, local food and rustic yet comfortable ambience.
Other than its renowned embroidery, Kutch is also specializes in block printing with vegetable dyes.
Bright ajrakh prints are still used, and the region also boasts the highest intensity of bandahini dying – the price depends not only on the fabric, but also the number of times it has to be tied and dyed.
For floor coverings you can try Kharal, a traditional floor spread woven entirely from camel and goat hair.
Visit Kutch to truly experience the rich tapestry of colors that is Gujarat.
Bhuj is well connected by air to Mumbai and Ahmedabad, and to explore the crafts villages of the area, it is best to have a good tour operator chalk up an itinerary for you.
The average Gaujarati is enthusiastic participant on over 2,000 festivals every year, but nothing brings out the best in him as do two specially cherished celebrations – the Kite festival in Uttarayan and the delirious elation of Navaratri.
In Guajrat Uttarayan is celebrated in the middle od January, and signifies the end of winter and comimg of spring.
For aweek people from all walks of life, and age be damned, fly kites with abandon, creating patches of every imaginable color in the blu sky above.
Even night can not stop the kite flying craze, because as soon as sun sets, illuminates box kites dot the night sky.
Known as tukkals, a special kind of kites are often stung together in a line, adding to the beauty of the festival.
Crowded on roof tops and open fields in friendly rivalry to show off their kite – flying skills. 
The festival also draw kite flying enthusiasts from around the world, who bring their own distinctive kites with them and add to the vibrancy of the festival
The epicenter of kite flying during Uttarayan is definitely in the capital Ahmedabad, and this is the place to be if you want to soak in the atmosphere of the festival.
The city’s Patang Bazaar sees brisk business as kites are brought in bulk, and the market remains open all day to satisfy the thousands who just can’t get enough of this sport.
Taking a break from kite flying is equally rewarding, for waiting in the wings is a whole spread of delectable savouries and sweets.
In October, the streets of Gujarat are filled once again with people heading out to different venues to dance the night away.
The occasion is Navaratri, which celebrates the victory of good over evil, and is a time of dancing as much as of worship.
Held over nine nights, Navaratri celebrations in Gujarat see young men and women looking their best.
The women go to great lengths to find that perfect Ghagra Choli, while the men fuss over their colorful turbans and starched Kurtas.
in the midst of all the excitement, revelers hold on top the most important accessory during the Navaratri , the Dandiya – the Dandiya Rasa is a more popular Navaratri dance from than the Garba, and it is easy to see why.
Dandiya Rasa celebrates the community spirit and togetherness, as dancers move in a circle constantly interacting with their neighbor through the striking the Dandiya.
The tempo of the dance increases with the time, until it is blur of whirling people and clashing of Dandiyas, hypnotic for those to watch.
The Garba on the other hand, is an equally fascinating, although a little more complex dance.
Women, who participate in Garba, balance a decorated pot on their heads and dances to the songs sung by fellow women to the beat of a Dholak.
Although Navaratri celebrations are spectacular all over Gujarat Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ambaji, and Poshina are the some areas where celebrations are particularly grand.
Madhya Pradesh is truly the heart of India; not just by the virtue of its location, but also because of its rich and varied heritage. 
Every traveler make it a point to visit the state’s three UNESCO world Heritage – the almost perfectly preserved stupas at Sanchi will draw in just as they did emperor Ashoka centuries ago.
Khajuraho  will enthrall you with the craftsmanship of its world –famous carvings, while the ancient paintings of Bheembetka will take you back to the prehistoric times.
Then there are well preserved forts and places of Gwalior, Orchha and Mandu, guaranteed to transport you to a glorious era in Madhya Pradesh’s history.
Also certain to delights are the pilgrimage sites of Ujjain, Omkareshwar, Maheshwar and Amarkantak, with their beautiful temples in lush riverside settings.
Needless to say, nature has been exceedingly generous to Madhya Pradesh, making the state paradise for wildlife enthusiasts – go on exciting tiger safaris in Kanha, Pench and Banhdavgarh, or simply soak in the green beauty Pachmarhi, the state’s only hill station.
It is no exaggeration to say that Madhya Pradesh is a paradise for all travelers.
Choose from jungle retreats and heritage hotels in forts and palaces, or just opt for a tiny guesthouse in the back of beyond.
The hunting lodge of the Maharaja of Orchha once stood on this lavishly decorated hotel known as Bundelkhand Riverside painstakingly built by Madhukar Shah, the heir to a long line of Maharajas, who chose virtually every tile that makes up the structure.
Set in over 50 acres of forest, the Bundelkhand Riverside palace stands on the banks of the Betwa river.
Royally furnished, with colonial touch, the 29 are airy and spacious, and most afford the great views of the river.
The hotel has a charming bar and one of the best restaurants gracing these parts.
Gaze out of any window or terrace of hotel Sheesh Mahal, right within the walls of the Jehangir fort palace, and breathtaking view of the medieval town of Orchha will stretch before you. 
From Sheesh Mahal you can see palaces, cenotaphs, and the spires of the Ramrajya and Cahturbhuj temple.
Named after the mirrors that cover every wall, the hotel has eight rooms – go in for one of the luxurious royal suits, with their antique furniture and massive marble bathrooms.
Stay in the cottages in Kipling Camp, and you’ll never want to leave this idyllic gateway.
Owned by the Wright’s, a British family, the Kipling Camp in Kanha is comfortably furnished with spacious verandahs where you can gaze into the surrounding seal forest and watch langurs and spotted and other animals amble by.
In Kanha you can even meet Tara, the elephant made famous by Mark Shands in his book Travels on my Elephant.
In Kipling Camp meals are fairly good and you can request chef to rustle up your favourite food too.
Picnic breakfast can be arranged for the morning safari around the park.
If only for the magnificent view of Narmada, as it courses gently between the impressive Marble rocks, try booking a room in Circuit House, Bhedaghat, a Government Guest House.
Perched on a cliff overlooking the river, the tranquility and scenic surroundings make up for the bare – banes facilities.
However, if you are picky about what you eat, then it’s a good idea to pack some supplies.
Overlooking the calm, azure waters of the Chandapata lake and near the Bhadiya Kund near natural springs, are the red – tiled cottages run bythe Madhya Pradesh state tourist corporation.
Cheerfully furnished, furnished, each cottage stands in a private nook, undisturbed by other visitors.
The staff of Tourist village, Shivpuri is friendly, the service is efficient and the meal is surprisingly good.
From tourist Village you can hear the sounds of the wildlife and birds of the Madhav National Park and the splash of crocodiles as they swim in the lake.

For an illusion of living in the distant past, there’s no better place than Ahilya Fort, the palace – hotel within the Maheshwar Fort, where the venerated Queen Ahilyabai once lived.
Ahilya Fort is now owned by the Holkar Family, erstwhile rulers of Malwa, some of the old chambers have been converted into comfortable bedrooms, with magnificent view of the Narmada river, ghats and temples.
Steps lead down to the river ghats from where you can look up at the soaring, golden spires of the several temples dotting the area.
You can also look forward to the excellent meals served in the garden – gourmet cuisine fit for a Maharaja and breakfast served on the ramparts of the fort.
The best place to stay in Bandhavgarh National Park is the Taj Group’s wildnerness lodge, Mahua Kothi.
Mahua Kothi is not only comfortable and eco – friendly, its guides are excellent – they love to park and it shows.
You can graze at the Narmada river flowing past the spectacular Marble Rocks from the comfortable rooms and well kept lawns of this charming Motel, Marble Rocks. 
Motel is equipped with all mod cons, but the peace and the quite is broken only by the roar of the  Dhuandhar falls, a short distance away.
There is a good restaurant in Motel, Marble Rocks something of a rarity in this area.
Against the backdrop of the forested Satpura hills in Seoni district, is the pench jungle camp heaven for wildlife.
Pench Jungle camp is situated right where Mowgli ran with the wolves in Kipling’s the Jungle Book.
And indeed jungle sounds will lull you to sleep in this wilderness retreat,Pench Jungle Camp, located near Pench National Park, in Avraghani village.
In Pench Jungle camp you will camp ot in deluxe tents, equipped with all the comforts of running water, battery – charged electricity and cosy furniture.