Phu Wua Wildlife Sanctuary near the Mekong River contains a number of beautiful waterfalls. 
Nong Khai is 615 kilometres from Bangkok and has an area of 7,739 square kilometres.
Nong Khai consists of the following districts: Mueang Nong Khai, Bueng Kan, Phon Phisai, Tha Bo, Sangkhom, Seka, So Phisai, Si Chiang Mai, Phon Charoen, Pak Khat, Bueng Khong Long, Si Wilai, Bung Khla, Sa Khrai, Rattana Wapi, Fao Rai and Pho Tak.
The province of Phang-nga is located some 788 kilometres from Bangkok. It covers an area of 4,170 square kilometres.
Phang-nga is a province with two characters - land and sea - and packed with national parks that guard magnificent scenery with immensely different attractions.
Most famous is Ao Phang-nga National Park, a geological wonder filled with islets, sunken caverns and startling rock formations rising sheer out of the sea.
The bay is extremely sheltered ideal for expeditions of sea canoes to explore the many fascinating caverns with their own eco-systems.
Khao Lak is a coastal park full of birds, mammals and scenic waterfalls, with a number of hotel developments after Tsunami disaster in December 2004.
The island groups of Surin and Similan are renowned for their beautiful unspoilt beaches and spectacular underwater scenery, attracting divers from around the world. 
The largest province of the South located 685 kilometers from Bangkok is Surat Thani the province with a name that literally means "City of the Good People".
A former capital of the Srivijaya Empire, the province covers an area of approximately 12,891 square kilometers.
Surat Thani Province borders the Gulf of Thailand to the north and east, Chumphon Province to the north, Nakhon Si Thammarat and Krabi Provinces to the south, Phang-Nga and Ranong Provinces to the west and Nakhon Si Thammarat Province to the east.
High plateaus and forested mountains are located to the west of the province, while there are low basins in the center and along the eastern coast.
 Topography of Surat Jhani Province has created 14 river basins including Tapee, Pum Duang, Tha Thong, Tha Krajai, Chaiya, Tha Chang which are the most important basins.
All rivers in Surat Thani flow east of the province to the Gulf of Thailand.
The numerous islands along the coast makes Surat Thani (often known as Surat in short) a perfect hideaway for vacationers from around the world.
The ideal destination for many is the Penang-sized Ko Samui, Thailand's third largest island and its neighbour Ko Pha-ngan a celebrated island that hosts the biggest beach full moon party.
North of Ko Pha-ngan is Ko Tao, renowned for its excellent coral reefs.
To top it all is the dazzling 250-square-kilometer Ang Thong Marine National Park, where a stunning archipelago awaits to greet visitors with their charming palm-fringed beaches, crystal clear water and colorful coral reefs.
The best time to enjoy one of these islands to the fullest is from April to November.
Surat Thani is a city with a long history; archeologists believe that it was once a community of prehistoric tribes of indigenous people including the Saemang and original Malays who built their communities on the Tapee River Basin and Ao Ban Don.
Later on, the Indians migrated into the area and gradually spread out their culture, as evidenced in the discovery of ruins of ancient communities in Tha Chana and Chaiya Sub-districts.
In the 13th century, the city became a part of and, as some historians might claim, a center of the glorious Srivijaya Empire the kingdom that dominated the whole Malay Peninsula and much of Java.
The empires grandeur can still be admired in many areas of Chaiya District.
When the empire hit the bottom, Surat Thani was divided into 3 main cities namely Chaiya, Tha Thong and Khiri Rat.
King Rama IV decided to move Tha Thong City to Ban Don and required that it report directly to Bangkoks administration.
The name Ban Don was, at the time, changed to Kanchanadit.
It was with the establishment of the Monthon, a former administrative unit, that all three cities were merged into one under the name Chaiya.
In 1915, King Rama VI changed the name Chaiya to Surat Thani.
The seal of Surat Thani says a lot about its history.
Featuring the pagoda of Phra Boromathat Chaiya, the seal is proof of the influence of Mahayana Buddhist on Surat Thani.
Phra Boromathat Chaiya is the most revered and important historical place in the province.
It is believed that the pagoda contains Buddha relics.
Today, Surat Thani is an important commercial and shipping hub for rubber and coconut trading.
Located approximately 862 kilometers south of Bangkok is Phuket, Thailand's largest island.
Phuket is often dubbed as the pearl of the Andaman, or the pearl of the south.
Phuket’s natural resources- rocky peninsular, limestone cliffs, white powdery beaches, tranquil broad bays and tropical in-land forests contribute to making it the South's wealthiest, busiest, most visited and most popular island and province
 Nestled in the tropical zone off the west coast of the southern part of Thailand in the Andaman Sea and the Indian Ocean, the province covers an area of approximately 543 square kilometers (excluding small islets).
It is estimated that Phuket Province covers an area of approximately 590 square kilometers if it’s 39 other small islands are included.
The islands total length, from north to south, is estimated at 48.7 kilometers and approximately 21.3 kilometers wide.
Phuket borders on Phang-nga Province to the north and the other 3 sides are encircled by the Andaman Sea the place where many of the best diving sites are located.
The island is connected to Phang-nga Province by Sarasin Bridge and Thep Krasattri Bridge.
Staying on Phuket is easy, as there are only two seasons in a year - the rainy season (May to October) and the hot season (November to April).
The low season of Phuket is between September and October as they are the wettest months.
The best period for a visit, is from November to February, when it is possible to see the clear blue sky, feel the fresh sea breeze and marvel at the crystal clear water while lying on powdery, palm-fringed beaches.
Average temperatures of Phuket ranges between 23°C and 33°C.
Phuket's topology is exceptional with 70 percent of its area covered with mountains which stretch from north to south and the remaining 30 percent being plains located in the central and eastern parts of the island.
The island of Phuket does not have any major rivers except for a total of 9 brooks and creeks.
Phuket is divided into 3 administrative counties namely Amphoe Muang, Amphoe Thalang and Amphoe Kathu.
Phuket has a lot more to offer its visitors other than its natural heritage sea, sand, sky, beach, forest, and world renowned diving sites.
Sino-Portuguese architecture casts its spell delighting travelers to the city, while Phuket-style hospitality has never failed to impress visitors from all walks of life.
In addition, accommodations ranging from world-class resorts to tropical-style bungalows have warmly catered to the different needs of travelers.
For seafood lovers, there is a lot more to sample than just Phuket's famous lobster.
Most geologists believe that the area known as Phuket today was once a cape that extended into the Andaman Sea.
Geographical formations gradually changed the capes location, finally detaching it from the mainland.
A famous Greek philosopher, Claudius Ptolemy, was the first person who mentioned the cape in his book written in the year 157.
The cape was locally referred to as Jung Ceylon, which was located between latitudes 6 N and 8 N (the present site of Phuket Island).
Natives called the place Cha Lang, which evolved to Tha Lang the name of the main town to the north of the island.
As a perfect stopover sheltering traders from monsoons, Jung Ceylon welcomed merchants from India, Persia, Arabia, Burma, China and also Siam.
During the 16th century, the island was also a popular trading port for tin with Portuguese, Dutch, English and French traders flocking to the island.
Chinese businessmen and miners later migrated to Phuket and soon enjoyed thriving business wealth. 
Apart from serving as a meeting point for traders from Europe, Central Asia and China, Phuket also attracted ambitious immigrants, especially those from Portugal and China, to work in the tin mines.
With Phuket’s colorful history, visitors admire the Sino-Portuguese style architecture in the city especially those buildings located along the Thalang and Yaowarat Roads.
Thalang town was surrounded by Burmese troops who invaded the coastal area in 1785.
Thalang town was under the leadership of Chan, the widow of the governor, and her sister, Muk, who united local residents and successfully fought and drove the invaders out of Phuket.
Thalang took over 30 days for the defending troops of Phuket, under the command of Chan and Muk, to claim their victory.
As a result of such heroic deeds, noble titles were granted to Chan and Muk as Thao Thep Krasattri and Thao Si Sunthon respectively.
To honor Chan and Muk, a monument was established at Tha Ruea Intersection, 12 kilometers to the north of Phuket City in 1966.
Chan and Muk are still highly respected by Phuket residents even today.
However, 24 years later, the Burmese succeeded in seizing Thalang causing many local residents to flee to Phang-nga and Krabi.
In 1825, some of them returned to re-establish a town and established a rice farming community.
On the other hand, the area to the south of the island (Phuket City today) was developed and became a tin trading center.
When Phuket was elevated to a town in 1850, it attracted more immigrants from Thalang and nearby communities.
In 1894, Phuket was promoted to be a Monthon administrative unit under the supervision of the central administrative body (located in Bangkok).
In 1902, Phraya Ratsada Korsimbi, a Sino-Thai businessman who contributed to developing the modern city of Phuket was appointed Governor of Phuket.
Phraya Ratsada Korsimbi also helped to improve the welfare of local residents and set up the market system in the countryside. In 1916, Phuket became a province.
The tin mining industry has gradually failed to generate economic growth in Phuket, especially after 1985 when the price of tin fell by half. 
However, with its natural resources, Phuket later emerged as a tourist destination with great potential.
Phuket, polished pearl of the Andaman is truly a destination that provides visitors with memorable experiences.
The islands long history has shaped the distinctive Phuket of the present with its diverse ethnic groups, culture, architectural influence, and fine cuisine.
With approximately 35 percent of the population being comprised of Thai-Muslims, it is possible to see an equal number of Wats (Thai temples) located next to Mosques.
Found in the 13th century, Sukhothai (literally means Dawn of Happiness) was the first truly independent Thai Kingdom, which enjoyed a golden age under King Ramkhamhaeng, credited with creating the Thai alphabet.
The superb temples and monuments of this great city have been lovingly restored in Sukhothai Historical Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a must-see for all travellers.
Sukhothai is located on the lower edge of the northern region, 427 kilometres north of Bangkok or some 298 kilometres south of Chiang Mai.
The province covers some 6,596 square kilometres and is divided into 9 Amphoes: Muang Sukhothai, Ban Dan Lan Hoi, Khiri Mat, Kong Krailat, Sawankhalok, Si Nakhon, Si Samrong, Si Satchanalai and Thung Saliam.
Sukhothai was the first kingdom of the Thais in this peninsula.
Two princes-Pho Khun Pha Muang and Pho Khun Bang Klang Hao combined their forces and fought the Khmers who commanded an extensive empire throughout this part of the world.
Pho Khun Pha Muang and Pho Khun Bang Klang Hao drove the Khmers out of Sukhothai, a major frontier post of the Khmer Empire, and established it as their capital in 1238.
Pho Khun Bang Klang Hao, urged by the people to be king, was enthroned with the royal title of Pho Khun Si Indrathit.
King Si Indrathit had two sons-Pho Khun Ban Mueang and Pho Khun Ramkhamhaeng and after death, Pho Khun Ban Mueang succeeded him.
Si Indrathit’s brother, Pho Khun Ramkhamhaeng, ascended the throne in 1278 and reigned for forty years.
Pho Khun Ramkhamhaeng, younger brother of king Si Indrathit was Thailand's first great king.
One of Thailand's finest warriors, King Ramkhamhaeng made Sukhothai a powerful and extensive kingdom which included many parts of what are today neighbouring countries.
King Ramkhamhaeng opened direct political relations with China and made two trips to China - the first in 1282 to visit Emperor Kublai Khan and the second in 1300 after Kublai Khans death.
From the second visit, he brought back Chinese artisans who taught the Thais the art of pottery.
Today, the old Sangkhalok Potteries are eagerly sought by collectors.
A major achievement of King Ramkhamhaeng was the revision of various forms of Khmer alphabets into a system suitable for the writing of Thai words.
The alphabet that he invented in 1283 was essentially the same as that in use today.
During reign of king Ramkhamhaeng, there was prosperity and happiness.
A stone inscription reads in part, This Muang Sukhothai is good. In the water there are fish; in the field there is rice.