European voyages of discovery began when Columbus discovered the islands of the "New World" in 1492.
Written records about life in Florida began with the arrival of the Spanish explorer and adventurer Juan Ponce de León in 1513.
Sometime between April 2 and April 8, Ponce de León waded ashore on the northeast coast of Florida, possibly near present-day St. Augustine.
Other Europeans may have reached Florida earlier, but no firm evidence of such achievement has been found. 
French settlement of Florida began in 1562 as Huguenots, French Protestants, established themselves on the St. Johns River not far from the Spanish settlement at St. Augustine.
Britain gained control of Florida in 1763 in exchange for Havana, Cuba, which the British had captured from Spain during the Seven Years’ War (1756–63). Spain evacuated Florida after the exchange, leaving the province virtually empty.
At that time, St. Augustine was still a garrison community with fewer than five hundred houses, and Pensacola also was a small military town.
First, it was split into two parts: East Florida, with its capital at St. Augustine; and West Florida, with its seat at Pensacola and the Apalachicola River became the boundary between them.
The two Floridas remained loyal to Great Britain throughout the War for American Independence (1776-83).
In 1783, Spain regained control of the rest of Florida as part of the peace treaty that ended the American Revolution.
Americans joined the battles for Florida in 1803, following their purchase of Louisiana from the French.
The history of Florida during this period is one of territorial gain and loss until 1821, when Spain ceded Florida to the United States of America.
When the British evacuated Florida, Spanish colonists as well as settlers from the newly formed United States came pouring in.
Many of the new residents were lured by favorable Spanish terms for acquiring property, called land grants.
Instead of becoming more Spanish, Florida increasingly became more "American."
Finally, after several official and unofficial U.S. military expeditions into the territory, Spain formally ceded Florida to the United States in 1821, according to terms of the Adams-Onís Treaty. 
What the U.S. inherited was a wilderness sparsely dotted with settlements of native Indian people, African Americans, and Spaniards.
As a territory of the United States, Florida was particularly attractive to people from the older Southern plantation areas of Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia, who arrived in considerable numbers.
After territorial status was granted, the two Floridas were merged into one entity with a new capital city in Tallahassee.
As Florida’s population increased through immigration, so did pressure on the federal government to remove the Indian people from their lands.
The Indian population was made up of several groups-primarily, the Creek and the Miccosukee people; and many African American refugees lived with the Indians.
the U.S. government spent $20 million and the lives of many U.S. soldiers, Indian people, and U.S. citizens to force the removal of the Seminoles.
Some Indians migrated "voluntarily." Some were captured and sent west under military guard; and others escaped into the Everglades, where they made a life for themselves away from contact with whites.
Beginning in the 1870s, residents from northern states visited Florida as tourists to enjoy the state’s natural beauty and mild climate
By the turn of the century, Florida’s population and per capita wealth were increasing rapidly; the potential of the "Sunshine State" appeared endless.
One of the most significant trends of the postwar era (1945-1960) has been steady population growth, resulting from large migrations to the state from within the U.S. and from countries throughout the western hemisphere, notably Cuba and Haiti. 
Since the 1950s, Florida’s public education system and public places have undergone great changes.
African American citizens, joined by Governor LeRoy Collins and other white supporters, fought to end racial discrimination in schools and other institutions.
Today, Florida attractions, such as the large theme parks in the Orlando area, bring millions of visitors to the state from across the U.S. and around the world. 
Palmetto State (tree), Swamp State, Rice State, South Carolina was originally named in honor of France's Charles IX and then in honor of England's Charles I and Charles II.
National Parks & Monuments in South Carolina include Congaree Swamp, Fort Moultrie, and Fort Sumter.
Following exploration of the coast in 1521 by Francisco de Gordillo, the Spanish tried unsuccessfully to establish a colony near present-day Georgetown in 1526, and the French also failed to colonize Parris Island near Fort Royal in 1562.
In colonial days, the state was part of a vast region that Charles I, king of England, granted to Sir Robert Heath in 1629.
The region was named Carolana, a word derived from the Latin form of Charles, in reference to the monarch.
The first English settlement was made in 1670 at Albemarle Point on the Ashley River, but poor conditions drove the settlers to the site of Charleston (originally called Charles Town).
South Carolina, officially separated from North Carolina in 1729, was the scene of extensive military action during the Revolution and again during the Civil War.
The Civil War began in 1861 as South Carolina troops fired on federal Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor, and the state was the first to secede from the Union.
Points of interest include Fort Sumter National Monument, Fort Moultrie, Fort Johnson, and aircraft carrier USS Yorktown in Charleston Harbor; the Middleton, Magnolia, and Cypress Gardens in Charleston; Cowpens National Battlefield; the Hilton Head resorts; and the Riverbanks 200 and Botanical Garden in Columbia.
Today, manufacturing is the state's largest employer, based largely on resources found in South Carolina.
Between 1820 and 1920 blacks outnumbered whites in South Carolina but After 1920 the state's white population grew more rapidly than the black population because many blacks migrated to the North.
Blacks are still a majority in parts of rural South Carolina, although many blacks have moved to urban areas.
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 1,628. Hispanics, who may be of any race, were 2.4 percent of the population
The Gem State, Famous Potatoes, Idaho was named by Invented by George M. Willing, who unsuccessfully sought to become a delegate from what would become the territory of Colorado.
Prior to the arrival of European and Mexican explorers, roughly 8,000 Native Americans representing two distinct groups inhabited Idaho: the Great Basin Shoshone and Bannock tribes of the Shoshone-Bannock and the Shoshone.
Paiute and the Plateau tribes of the Coeur d’Alene, Nez Perce and Kootenai.
Today, Idaho’s Native American heritage, their tribes and their chiefs are reflected in county names like Nez Perce, Benewah Shoshone, Bannock and Kootenai counties and the communities of Shoshone, Pocatello, Blackfoot, Nezperce, White Bird, Kamiah, Lapwai, Weippe, Kooskia, Picabo and Tendoy.
At one time, during the Gold Rush of the early 1800s, Idaho’s population was one-quarter Chinese. By 1870, a majority of all Idaho miners were Chinese.
In the mid-1800s, as with other western states, most early Idaho settlers fled the East to escape what they saw as officially sanctioned harassment of individuals for their beliefs.
During the 1890s, there were several thousand Japanese laborers constructing the railroad through Idaho.
In 1896, Idaho became the fourth state in the nation to give women the right to vote.
Idaho variously belonged to the Oregon Territory, Washington Territory before it became a state in 1890.
It was not until the turn of the century that women in more than a handful of states had equal right to the family assets but In 1972, Idaho became the first state in the Nation to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment.
In 1805, York, an African-American servant for the the Lewis and Clark Expedition traveled though what is now Idaho.
Respected by the Indians, York today is credited as being of great value to the success of the trip.
Some of the fur trappers, traders and miners who followed were African-American, including one who helped build the first mission in the Northwest.
Even the impact of Hawaiian Islanders employed as laborers in the Northwest fur trade received recognition through the naming of Owyhee County.
Mountain men, including some Spaniards and Mexicans, lived off the land as trappers and hunters.
Jesus Urquirdes, one of several successful Mexican business people, came to Boise in 1863, became a prominent Pacific Northwest packer and built the Spanish Village in 1870s to house his Mexican packers.
Until after the Civil War, only free Black or escaped slaves came West unless brought by their owners.
The entry of the railroad though southern Idaho starting in the 1880s resulted in a number of African-Americans settling in Pocatello.
Four companies of troops from the 24th Regiment (an African American unit) were sent to Idaho in 1899 to maintain order during the Coeur d’Alene mining strikes.
Between 1900 and 1920, a large number of Basque immigrants came to Idaho from the Pyrenees to work as sheepherders.
Old North State, Turpentine State, Tarheel State, North Carolina was originally named in honor of France's Charles IX and later in honor of England's Charles I and Charles II.
English colonists, sent by Sir Walter Raleigh, unsuccessfully attempted to settle Roanoke Island in 1585 and 1587.
In 1653 the first permanent settlements were established by English colonists from Virginia near the Roanoke and Chowan rivers.
The region was established as an English proprietary colony in 1663-1665 and in its early history was the scene of Culpepper's Rebellion (1677), the Quaker-led Cary Rebellion (1708), the Tuscarora Indian War (1711-1713), and many pirate raids.
During the American Revolution, there was relatively little fighting within the state, but many North Carolinians saw action elsewhere.
Despite considerable pro-Union, anti-slavery sentiment, North Carolina joined the Confederacy during the Civil War.
North Carolina became the 12th State to Unite under America on November 21, 1789.
Scots-Irish, Highland Scots, Germans, and Welsh also arrived in the 18th century, many from the colony of Pennsylvania.
Sometimes certain dialects and accents can be detected in the speech of more isolated rural North Carolinians, especially on the Outer Banks, where descendants of early English settlers remained spatially isolated for many decades.
North Carolina had about 100,000 black inhabitants in 1790, and by the time of the American Civil War (1861-1865) blacks accounted for one-third of the population.
Volunteer State, Big Bend State, Tennessee was named for the Little Tennessee River, which was in turn named for two villages along its shores which the Cherokee called Tanasi.
National Parks & Monuments in Tennessee include Big South Fork, Great Smoky Mountains, Shiloh National Military Park, Fort Donelson National Military Park, and Stones River National Battlefield. Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park (partly in Georgia).
First visited by the Spanish explorer Hernando de Soto in 1540, the Tennessee area would later be claimed by both France and England as a result of the 1670s and 1680s explorations of Jacques Marquette and Louis Joliet, Sieur de la Salle, and James Needham and Gabriel Arthur.
Great Britain obtained the area after the French and Indian Wars in 1763.
During 1784-1787, the settlers formed the 'state' of Franklin, which was disbanded when the region was allowed to send representatives to the North Carolina legislature.
In 1790 Congress organized the territory south of the Ohio River, and Tennessee joined the Union in 1796.
Although Tennessee joined the Confederacy during the Civil War, there was much pro-Union sentiment in the state, which was the scene of extensive military action.
Today, Tennessee is a leading tobacco-producing state.
Bluegrass State, HempState and Tobacco State (important crops), Kentucky is named after the Wyandot Indian word for "plain," which referred to the state's central plains.
Average Summer temperatures are usually from 74° to 80°. Winter averages range from below 34° in the north to more than 38° in the south. 
Arriving Europeans brought epidemic diseases that swept through the Native American population.
By the mid-1700s only a handful of native settlements survived in Kentucky.
Native Kentuckians include the Mingo (Seneca-Iroquois), the Cherokee, and the Shawnee.
Explorers like Dr. Thomas Walker and John Finley in the 1750s and frontiersmen like Daniel Boone and Simon Kenton in the 1760s gave glowing accounts of the rich land beyond the mountains.
Attracted by the promise of abundant land and game, settlers flocked through the Cumberland Gap or down the Ohio River to Kentucky.
With the advent of the American Revolution, British-inspired Indian attacks continually plagued these pioneer settlements.
Kentucky chose to be known as a commonwealth, meaning government based on the common consent of the people and dating to the time of Oliver Cromwell’s England.
Isaac Shelby, a Revolutionary War hero, was the first governor, and Frankfort was chosen as the state capital.
When the Civil War broke out in 1861, Kentucky was torn apart by conflicting loyalties.
Although Kentucky declared itself a neutral state, both the Union and Confederate governments recognized its strategic potential, and both sides recruited openly.
Raising and racing thoroughbreds also became a lucrative endeavor, and the Kentucky Derby grew in popularity after the first race in 1875.
Kentucky produces more thoroughbred foals than any other state in the U.S.
Large-scale coal mining in Eastern Kentucky's mountains began in the early 1900s as the railroads penetrated previously isolated areas.
Old Dominion, Ancient Dominion, Cavalier State, Virgina was named in 1584 in honor of Queen Elizabeth of England, who was popularly called the "Virgin Queen".
The first European to see Virginia may have been John Cabot, who reached the North American coast for England in 1497 and may have explored it the next year.
In 1570 the Spanish started a religious mission on the Rappahannock River near the site of Fredericksburg, but Native Americans wiped it out.
In 1606 King James I of England granted to two commercial companies the right to colonize Virginia, a name the English used broadly to describe the Atlantic coast of North America.
One company, the Virginia Company of London, dispatched a fleet of three ships, the Susan Constant, the Goodspeed, and the Discovery, under the command of Captain Christopher Newport.