Religion has long played an important role in the culture and lives of the people of Russia.
In Russia religion has influenced government, created holidays and given people hope for better things during the most desperate times.
Russia became a Christian country in 988 when Prince Vladimir of Kiev adopted the new religion; this historical event laid the foundation for the Russian Orthodox Church which is still the religious denomination in the country.
When Communism gripped the country and a new period of religious intolerance was begun as many as seventy years the official religion of the country remained ‘atheism’.
Freedom of religion is something practised in most Russian cities and many of the beautiful churches that were once abandoned have again become filled with parishioners.
Many old churches, monasteries and cathedrals have managed to survive Communism and today they make fascinating tourist attractions in addition to still being houses of worship.
Places such as the Andronikov Monastery, the Cathedral of the Archangel, the St Sophia Cathedral in Novgorod or the Monastery of the Transfiguration on Valaam Island are all fantastic tourist stops.
You do not have to be a member of a particular faith to appreciate the lavish decorations, the ornate fixtures and the beautiful and skilful designs of many of the churches and monasteries of Russia.
So the next time you visit Russia, take a tour of the many beautiful religious buildings that can be found here.
You will find churches at the centre of major cities such as Moscow and St Petersburg – or in smaller rural areas around the country.
Russia is a land of white snow and lethal winters, but also of rivers that ramble across the meadows and a midsummer sun that never sets.
When it comes to getting back to nature, you can choose from several natural zones such as arctic, snow-laden deserts to millennia old forests in North West Russia.
There are also many rivers and lakes - many of which, besides being incredibly beautiful, are used as a source of transportation.
You can visit the Kremlin, Red Square, The Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, The Tretyakov Gallery and The Novodevichy Monastery - each a feast for the eyes.
There are a lot of other things to see in central Russia too, and if you'd like to spend time in a few different cities in this region, the Golden Circle is a trip worth taking.
South Ural has three main biomes - forested mountains, partially wooded steppes and normal, grassy steppes.
No matter what destination you travel to in Russia you choose to visit, they are all unique and each of them will provide an experience that will make a mark in your memory forever. 
It took many years for Russia to grow and develop as a country.
Eventually, under the rule of Peter the 1st, the conquered land mass was extended to the Baltic Sea and the whole territory was renamed the Russian Empire.
Communism took a hold of the country, many lives were lost and the economy slowly fell into a decline.
In December 1991, the USSR was splintered into fifteen independent republics and it has since struggled to build a good democratic political system.
Russia is starting to regain economic momentum and many of the scars left by communism are slowly disappearing but unfortunately, there is still guerrilla conflict in Chechnya.
Russia is an incredibly large country and it expands over much of Eurasia.
Much of Northern Asia and some of Western Europe are part of Russia and it is bordered by the Arctic Ocean and the North Pacific Ocean.
The geographical area that makes up Russia spans 17 075 200 square kilometers. Of this, 16 995 800 square kilometers is land and 79 400 square kilometers is water.
Generally speaking, the winters vary from cool to frigid while the summers range from humid to cool.
Terrain in Russia is vivid there are the coniferous forest of the taiga and wooded areas, the cold bleak tundra's in Northern Siberia, the broad plains and low hills west of the Urals, and the uplands and mountains which lie along the Southern border regions.
The lowest point of Russia is the Caspian Sea which lies at an elevation of -28 meters and the highest is Mount Elbrus (also the highest mountain in Europe) which towers up to 5 633 meters.
Russia has an incredible wealth of natural resources? Many of which it is well known for.
However, because of the vastness of the landscape, much of the lands natural resources are yet to be discovered.
The majority of people in Russia is Russian Orthodox, while there is a minority of Muslim adherents in the country.
The main language in the country is Russian but there are a lot of other minority languages which are spoken in different regions.
Facilities for Telephones, cellular phones, radio and television stations have been firmly established in the country for some time now, the internet is also readily available and is used by a large portion of the countries inhabitants.
Russian Music incorporates numerous genres including folk music, opera, classical and contemporary, such as rock, pop and so forth.
It has been said that Russian music composers are conveying a story to their listeners, telling of the joys, pain, pleasure and suffering of people.
Russia's borders encompass a diversity of ethnic groups each possessing their own culture and along with that its own form of folk music.
Whilst the country was under Soviet rule, all music was to remain within certain limits and was carefully scrutinized.
However when the USSR dissolved westernized music in the form of pop and rock became popular in Russia.
Among Russia's greatest classical composers were individuals such as Sergei Prokofiev, Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Mikhail Glinka, Sergei Rachmaninoff and Igor Stravinsky.
The Soviet era saw restrictions, but still many new singers, bands and composers arose and today, Russia produces a variety of modern music genres including rock, metal, electronic, alternative and ska punk.
Russian music, particularly folk music, features a number of traditional instruments
Very popular is the Balalaika, a three-stringed instrument played with the fingers and varying in size.
If you have considered to travel to another country, you might as well consider Russia as the ideal destination.
Flights are constant and very accessible, car hire and accommodation is plenteous and there are many vacation packages that cater for various needs.
Although many people would think of Russia as just another big boring city in Europe, the fact is that it has much to offer.
Russia is divided into some very exciting cities and many small picturesque countryside towns, each with its own special attractions.
You can plan a day of fun and adventure by exploring Russia's landscape through some of the most beautiful waterways to be found in this country on a river rafting tour.
If you are amongst the ones that prefer the wildlife tours, then why not go on a exciting jeep tour to the Republic of Sakha in Yakutia, which has the largest hunting grounds in Russia.
Moscow and St. Petersburg has an abundance of museums, art galleries and guided tours through the older parts of the cities that features some sightseeing activities of monuments and old Russian architecture.
Russia is also home to some of the oldest lakes in the world, such as Lake Baikal - an estimated 25-30 million years old.
When visiting in winter, Russia is covered in snow and the lakes are covered with a dense layer of ice, these conditions are very favorable for those who fascinate the winter adventures, such as skiing, snowboarding, ice-diving and ice-skating.
Russia is a country that has something to cater for everyone's taste, and when the sun sets, you can spoil yourself to some lip-smacking Russian cuisine in one of the many delightful restaurants.
Brazil begins to show its more urban side in the Southeast. The states ofEspírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, comprise thisregion.
In Rio de Janeiro, known as the "cidade maravilhosa" (marvelouscity), the lush greenery is starkly contrasted against the thousands ofmodern buildings within this bustling metropolis.
Don'tmiss the most renowned Carnival parade in the world with its luxurioussamba schools and a high quality hotel system of Rio de Janeiro.
The state of Rio de Janeiroalso has stunning beaches in Angra dos Reis, Búzios, and Cabo Frio,historic buildings in Parati, and the mountainous region of Petrópolis(the famous Imperial City), Teresópolis and Friburgo.
In the state of Minas Gerais, you can discover the architecture of thepast, visiting the famous masterpieces of the baroque sculptorAleijadinho, and the historic towns of Ouro Preto, Mariana, São João DelRey, Tiradentes, Sabará, Diamantina, and Congonhas do Campo.
In the state of Espírito Santo, the chef's recommendation is the famous"moqueca capixaba", a very tasty regional specialty.
You may also visitthe historic cities of Vila Velha and Anchieta and the monazite sandbeaches of Guarapari.
In the city of São Paulo, the largest metropolis in South America, allthe continents intermingle within the most modern, cosmopolitan, and urbanof settings.
The inhabitants of São Paulo are mainly of European,Japanese, and Arab ancestry.
Together, they built veritable industrial andcommercial empires, bringing with them their native culture and cuisine.
The northern coast of the stateof São Paulo boasts splendid beaches at Ilha bela, Ubatuba, and SãoSebastião.
In the 15th and 16th centuries Portugal, an Iberian Kingdom with barely a million inhabitants, was hemmed in by the Atlantic in front and by a hostile Castile behind.
After years of struggle against the Moorish occupation, the Portuguese turned their attention and energy to the sea and what lay beyond.
While the Spaniards set out in search of a route to the Orient by voyaging to the West, the Portuguese opted for the so-called Southern Cycle down the African coast.
For a small nation, secrecy was the only available method of safeguarding the rewards of bold and successful exploration against exploitation by more powerful maritime rivals.
Portuguese knew of the existence of lands across the Atlantic and they had made several expeditions to the West before Columbus discovered the Antilles in 1492, but they had kept the knowledge to themselves in order to forestall the ambitions of Spain, England, and France.
Reaching the Cape of Good Hope in 1487, Portuguese were led by the navigator, Vasco da Gama, across the Indian Ocean to discover the sea route to the Far East in 1497.
The Treaty of Tordesillas (1494) settled the question of possession of the new lands between Spain and Portugal.
It was agreed that territories lying east of a meridian 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands should belong to Portugal, the lands to the west to Spain.
A imaginary line (mentioned in treaty), from pole to pole, cut through the eastern- most part of the South American continent and constituted Brazil's first frontier, although the formal discovery by Pedro Alvares Cabral did not take place until six years later in 1500.
The most exploitable wealth Portuguese found was a wood that produced red and purples dyes, pau-brasil (from which the country derived its name).
Organized occupation only began in 1530, when Portugal sent out the first colonists with domestic animals, plants, and seeds to establish permanent settlements.
São Vicente on the coast of the modern State of São Paulo was founded in 1532, and the city of Salvador, later chosen as the seat of the Governors General, followed in 1549.
As a first step to establish the administration system, the Portuguese Crown created a number of hereditary fiefs, or captaincies.
Fourteen captaincies some larger than Portugal itself were established in the mid 16th century, and the beneficiaries, called donatários, were responsible for their defense and development.
The moist and fertile seaboard of what is now the State of Pernambuco was very suitable for growing sugar and also conveniently located as a port of call for sailing ships traveling from Portugal to West Africa and the Orient.
A flourishing triangular trade soon developed, based on the importation of slave labor from West Africa to work on sugar plantations.
Paradoxically, Portugal's 60 years of union with Spain were to confer unexpected advantages on her transatlantic colony.
In the absence of boundaries, both the Portuguese and the Brazilians started penetrating deeper into the vast hinterlands.
Expeditions (known as Bandeiras) in search of Indian slaves cut their way through forest, climbed the difficult escarpments, and marched across the inland plateau.
In 1640, when the Portuguese under John VI recovered their Independence, they refused to abandon the lands they had occupied and colonized west of the original Tordesillas line.
Claiming what has since become recognized in international law as the right of uti possidetis the right derived not only from title but also from useful possession; the Portuguese succeeded in establishing themselves as the rightful owners.
The second half of the 17th century saw Portugal freed from Spanish rule, the northeast of Brazil liberated from a 24-year occupation by Dutch forces, and the weakening of Brazil's sugar economy.
While the gold rush which followed drained thousands of people away from the coastal plantations, it also attracted fresh immigration from Portugal.
Altogether nearly 1,000 tons of gold and 3 million carats of diamonds were taken from the region between 1700 and l800.
The growth of gold mining in Brazil was an important development which influenced the course of events not only in the colony but also in Europe.
But the boom in gold and diamond mining, like that of sugar, was destined to be followed by the rise of an even more important source of wealth: coffee.
Just as mining caused a migration of people from Pernambuco and Bahia southwards to Minas Gerais, so the spread of coffee-growing advanced the settlement of empty land still further to the south.
The early plantations of Coffee were in regions in the hinterland of Rio de Janeiro well provided with slave labor; but the abolition of slavery and European immigration into the State of São Paulo in the late 19th century caused coffee growing to move southwards to the region where soil conditions, climate, and altitude combined to create an ideal environment.
Another important event in the second half of the 18th century was the transfer of the seat of colonial government.
After more than 200 years in Salvador, the capital was moved to Rio de Janeiro, where it dominated the main access route to Minas Gerais and was closer to the growing population centers in the southern regions of the colony.
Monopolizing all trade with Brazil, Portugal retained a substantial part of the profits, and this led to growing discontent among the settlers.
For those of you who do not understand Spanish or Portuguese, the word Bonito translates in English to beautiful.
However, many believe that this destination was not named justifiably…as Bonito simply does not describe the extraordinariness of the attractions! Merely a decade ago, this region remained undiscovered by tourists.
There are daily flights from Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to Campo Grande. Bonito is 175 miles from Campo Grande, (approximately 3 hours by car due to road conditions).
All tours throughout the region are led by excellently trained guides and, although most caves and grottos could hold as many as 100 people, are kept to a maximum of 15 people.
Warm canals meander through the dunes, creating an abundance of small islands, 83 to be exact, and a rich selection of ecosystems, including forests, beaches, mangroves, lagoons and dunes.
Exploring this region can be done by foot, horseback, or various boats, such as canoes, kayaks, and gaiolas, boats typically used by locals, both here and in the Amazon.