Ask anyone in Kolkatka where the Sir Stuart Hogg market is and he might give you a baffled look, but ask him about New Market and he’ll happily point you in the right direction.
New Market was established in 1874 and named after the theen Cjommissioner. In Kolkata, it is the shopper’s favourite huant.
Although part of it was gutted a few years ago, there are rows upon rows of little shops still thriving.
Take a Dekko at the red brick gothic clock tower. 
Swabhumi is a heritage plaza that showcases (really, we mean it) the best of Indian art culture.
Pick up Madhubani and Gond paintings, Dokra work figurines and Bengal’s famous Kaantha embroidery. 
At Kaarigar haat you’ll bump into artisans selling their creations, while Meena Bazaar gives you a feel of a real old village.
Stop in at the Food Court for some delicious grub. 
Swabhumi is quite an unmatched experience.  
Bengal is known for its liberal use of this ‘golden fiber’, and you’ll find jute products ranging from your regular tablemats to beautiful carpets, colourful wall-hangings and even kitschy handbags. 
The best time to buy these is winter, when Kolkata’s calendar is packed with handloom and handicrafts expo.
You can also buy jute products from Kaliagani, about 360 km from Kolkata. 
Bengal has always been known for its silk; today its trademark is the Baluchari sari, woven it the town of Baluchar in Murshidabad district. 
The traditional colours used are deep red, blue, yellow, green and scarlet, and the Kalka design often has pretty floral borders. 
There is nothing to beat Bengal’s cotton saris, crisp and so elegant. 
Baluchari Saris come with different names in various designs ther’s simple taant, light-as-feathers tangail and the intricate and rich Dhakai Jamdani. 
Buy the best Baluchari Saris in Baluchar, 211 km from Kolkata. 
You’ll find excellent Bengal cottons in Adi Dhakeswari Vastralaya and RMCA Basak in Gariahat in Kolkata. 
Also try Shantipur, Fulia, Guptipara and Samudragarh in Nadia district, 75 km from Kolkata; and Begumpur, Rajbalhat and Dhanekhali in Hooghly district, 47 km from Kolkata.
A welcome Heritage hotel, Winamere is situated on historic Observatory Hill in Darjeeling. 
Originally a 19th century boarding house, built for british and Scottish tea planters, it was converted into a hotel in 1939.  
Windamere’s décor follows traditional colonial style and, it’s new wing, Little Windamere has modern facilities and décor.  
Nor-khil Hotel, Gangtok a short walk from downtown, this is a stunning example of old-school Sikkimese architecture. Nor-khill Hotel, Palijor Stadium Road, Gangtok.
Think of Delhi and the image that spring to mind are many. A city in which the wrap and weft of history’s fabric are beautifully meshed. 
A city that easily, effortlessly combines in itself the lineage of the old and the panache of the new. 
Delhi, where broad tree-lined avenues and gracious bungalows compartment blocks where the hand pulled friendly neighbors.
Where you can experience every season-from searing balmy autumn and a mysterious monsoon thrown in for good measure.
Delhi, where you can shop for everything from priceless lithographs in rarefied art galleries to designer knock-offs from street markets where food and eating are not just a way of life but the very art of living.  
A capital city that ultimately defines description, notwithstanding all the words and pictures that seek to immortalize it. 
This is the Delhi that you must discover and fall in love with, this is the Delhi that is the heart of India.
A festival of Sufi music dedicated to Hazrat Amir Khusrau, famed poet laureate and an icon fo love and integration, the Jahan-E-Khusarau is held in spring every year in Delhi.
This music festival brings together the most luminous artistes both from India and all over Asia. From the soulful sounds of the qawwali to the passion of dervishes, you’ll find it all here. 
Delhi rejoices every November-December when the fabulous Qutub Festival of Classical music and Dance comes around.  
This festival held to commemorate the historical importance of the Qutub Minar, the festival showcases the best of Indian music, dance and yes, food.
For these days, the ancient monument comes alive with classical dance performances, ghazals and qawwalis, the haunting strings of the sarangi and sitar, and the smells and tastes of culinary delights at innumerable food stalls. 
Mango Festivals, to celebrate the reign of this king of fruits, crowds throng for three days to sample over 500 different types of mangoes and even buy mango sampling for their gardens.
There are live classical and folk performances, as well as mango-eating competitions for the ambitious and you’ll leave with the sweetest taste in your mouth. 
a three day festival of music, the Bhakti Utsav is a combined richness of the various kinds of music practiced and loved in the Indian subcontinent, from the classical to the traditional to the folk. The utsav transcends boundaries of religion and language and Sanskrit chants, folk Bhajans, Qawwalis, carnatic devotional songs….. the list is endless and wonderfully accomplished.
All major forms of Indian classical dance converge on one stage at Ananya, a festival of dance held against the charming backdrop of the Purana Qila every year.
Group choreography breaks new frontiers with artistes experimenting with different styles and combining aesthetic ideologies.
New interpretations of fluidity and movement in the classical and the contemporary are created, resolving themselves in the realm of the timeless. 
An imagination of dance and context that is simply fascinating. 
Whenever any newcomer to the capital city even mentions the world ‘shopping’, he is invariably pointed towards Dilli Haat.
Right in the heart of the city, opposite INA Market, Dilli Haat offers an unparalleled experience of the best that India has to offer in terms of craftsmanship, whether material, cultural or culinary. 
The Haat, is an ambitious and highly successful project by Delhi Tourism. 
The Haat sees a constant flux of Indian handicrafts and artifacts every 15 days. 
The Haat is built to resemble a village, resplendent in brick and terracotta, paved in stone with plenty of green. 
The small thatch-roofed huts at Dilli Haat sell everything from sandalwood carvings to jewellery, silks to brass and metal, ethnic garments to durries and rugs, wall hangings to traditional artworks…the list is endless. 
More than 200 artisans from all over India ply their wares and encourage the loosing of your purse strings. 
You will do so willingly, as prices are reasonable and attractive. 
The most loved in all of Dilli Haat is the food plaza where you’ll find the best cuisines from 25 Indian states- hot momos and fruit beer from the north-east, delicious putu and kadala from Kerla, rich Hydrabad biryani, succulent Gujarati dhokla, mouth-watering Bengali sweets, and more.
Dilli Haat sees a wide variety of festivals celebrated amidst much joy and enthusiasm every year like Ganesh Utsav at the end of August, the Deep Utsav, celebrated in mid-October on the occasion of Diwali and Onam brings lavishly decorated elephants, when traditional dances from Kerala are performed and the Onam sadhyam is served and there’s so much more. 
The Park luxury boutique hotel overlooks the historic 18th century Jantar Mantar, close to Connaught Place, original and contemporary in design, its rejuvenating spaces are complemented by edgy artworks and sensual fabrics. 
The Imperial Art Deco hotel, with its signature king palm trees, is often referred to as ‘the museum hotel’, built in 1931, it has played host to such eminent personalities as Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Nehru, Lord Mountbatten and Muhammed Ali Jinnah, among others. 
Service apartments for long-term stay were unheard of in India before Ahuja Residency, Golf Links stepped in.
Rooms at Delhi’s prestigious India Habitat Centre are only available to members, so you’ll have to find somebody who can wangle one for you. 
The India Habitat Centre is where I have had better service than at any five star hotel-the atrium and the design of the building also make it unique, as does its proximity to Lodhi Garden, where one can go for a long refreshing walk in the mourning. 
Stylish and contemporary. With well-maintained lawns, the Raddissson is practically next door from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport. 
The red brick building spreads over five acres of land and houses one of the capital’s best loved restaurants, The Great Kabab Factory. 
The Oberai is an award wining luxury hotel in the cultural and historical heart of Delhi, it overlooks the prestigious Golf Club on one side and Humayun’s Tomb on other at Zakir Hussain Marg. 
Hotel Nikko, Bangla Sahib Road, is run by a Japanese corporation, so you can expect unwavering courtesy and efficiency, and of course, a very modern and innovative use of space. 
Designed like a grand Spanish hacienda, with spreading lawns and wonderfully laid out gardens and pools, Tivoli Garden Resort, Chatterpur Road, resort on the outskirts of Delhi is a haven of tranquility and the rooms are plush, and ideal for a weekend filled with luxurious lazing.  
The Manor has the air of an old English bunglow, where understated elegance and discreet service combine to leave you feeling like a visiting dignitary.
The Grand Vasant Kunj, with a resort like ambience, this is one of Delhi’s most lovely hotels.
Kabab, around Jama Masjid, when it is comes to spicy, succulent, Delhi’s probably second only to Lucknow.
For the authentic Mughai non-vegetarian food, look no further than  the bunch of small restaurants and stalls clustered near, Jama Masjid,
You’ll be spoilt for choice by the sheer variety of Kebabs-Seekh, Kathi, Reshmi, Gola, Shaami and Kalmi.
Once an extraordinary street lined with shops offering a variety of layered and stuffed paranthas, Pranthewali Gali has only a few parantha stalls left; but it is still foodie heaven.
Fast on old favorites like aloo, gobhi, paneer and palak paranthas, but to experience the parantha at its most elevated try unusual innovations like the kaju badam parantha, stuffed with dry fruits.  
Chaat in Chandani Chowk, what is now taken for typical Delhi cuisine is an eclectic and inviting mix of Bania, Punjabi and Mughlai food.
If you wind your way through the alleys of Chandani Chowk, you will still find tiny shops selling irresistible spicy snacks, including papri chat, gol gappas, dahi pakora, kanji vada, kalmi vada and raj kachoris.
La Piazza is arguably the best Italian fine dinning eatery in the capital.
Apart from the delectable food, the Sunday brunch at La Piazza stylish eatery also packs in a huge amount of snob appeal.
The sweet pists ki lauz at Ghantewala; creamy rabdi and delightful khurchan at Paranthewali Gali; golden, crunchy Jalebi at Chandni Chowk; fragrant biryani and succulent kebabs at Jama Masjid, butter chicken at Pandara Road; Cholle Bhature in Karol Bagh; chaat in Bengali Market.
Chandani Chowk, where mouthwatering food overflows into the streets, as aromas and flavours infuse the crammed galis. 
Kesar Kulfi with faluda is practically synonymous with Delhi.
There’s nothing as delicious as a kesar kulfi delicately flavoured with saffron, sprinkled with pistas and served on a bed of faluda, sweet vermicelli.
Arguably the best Japanese restaurant in Delhi, Sakura is the next best thing to dining in Tokyo.
Sunday brunch is a lavish affair, where wine flows freely even as the table is refreshed, time and again, with sushi, sashimi, tempura, the works.
Raed by Conde Nast Traveller as one of the top 10 restaurants in the world, The Spice Route offers superb food in a truly inspired setting. 
Done up like a typical Greek tavern, this one’s a must for those who wish to dig their forks into authentic Greek food.
With minimalistic interious, it is well known for its rich moussaka, hummus served with delicious, unusual dips and the honey and fig ice cream. 
With two outlets in the exclusive Khan Market and another in East of Kailash, The Big Chill holds tremendous appeal.
From grandparents to toddlers, The Big Chill informal Italian bistro attracts food buffs from all over the city. 
The Big Chill’s range of soups, salads, pastas and tempting desserts is sure to satisy all cravings, especially those involving melting cheese. 
In the heart of the city, Connaught Place colonial marketplace was the city’s first modern commercial centre, and remains a hive of activity with the slick sameness of modernity encraching rapidly, it is still home to cavernous old family-run shops from the days of the Raj, high-ceiling restaurants cloked in a certain shabby grandeur and musty bookstores where you can brows for hours. 
Kabaadi Bazaar famous Sunday market began life in the lawns of Lal Quila before moving to its present location in Daryaganj.
All manner of second-hand goods are sold here, but the place to go is the Book Bazaar, where second-hand books are available at unbelievably low prices.
Janpath remains one of Delhi’s most colourful markets and attracts everyone from students to housewives to passing tourists. 
It is street fashion, leather accessories, books or curio, Janpath has it all.
Hauz Khas Village, Near Green Park, is a great place to while away a sunny winter afternoon.
Amble past medieval monuments from the time of Alauddin Khilji, and find yourself amid fashion boutiques, art galleries and stylish bistros.
The shopping likely to cost you dear, but you can find some exquisite antiques and lovely paintings by lesser known Indian artists.
Delhi now has mega-size malls to rival both Gurgaon and Noida, these sprawling outlets bring the world’s best right to your shopping bag.
Sample the range of cosmetics, perfumes, jewellery, clothes, fashion accessories, household bric-a-brac, kids wear, and audio and video CDs on display at Ansal Plaza (Khel Gaon Marg) Cross River Mall in Shahadra and West Gate near Rajouri Garden. 
Given North India’s obsession with weddings, clothe and jewellery, Delhi is where your trousseau shopping should begin and end.
Chandani Chowk, Karol Bagh, Rajouri Garden and South Extension are the best markets for diamond and gold jewellery. Designer Lehangas, saris and other wedding paraphernalia.
As the capital of the country, Delhi stocks handicrafts from every state. 
Some of the best places to source them are the Central Cottage Industries Emporium, Janpath; the long row of state emporia on Baba Kharak Singh Marg; the Crafts Museum, Mathura Road; Dilli Haat; and Hauz Khas Village. 
Use shopping as a way of exploring the city and understanding its people better- and pick up some great bargains along the way. 