Mysore is the former capital of the erstwhile Wodeyars and the state of Mysore. 
Mysore is also known as the City of Palaces. 
Abode of untold grandeur and glory, where the rich heritage of the Wodeyars is carefully preserved to this day in its magnificent palaces, gardens, broad shady avenues and sacred temples. 
There is an old world charm about the city that reaches out and leaves no one untouched.
 Mysore, or Mahishur as it was called in the past, traces its history back to the mythical past, when Goddess Chamundeshwari of Chamundi Hills killed the wicked buffalo-headed demon, Mahishasura.
Mysore also has associations with the Mahabharatha and King Ashoka of 3rd century B.C. 
During the Wodeyar rule, Mysore reached the zenith of its glory as a fabled center of oriental splendor. 
Hyder Ali and his valiant son Tippu Sultan are notable figures in the history of the land. 
They expanded the Mysore kingdom on an unprecedented scale and by their resistance against the British, became personages of world fame. 
Tippu was a great scholar and lover of literature.
 His artistic pursuits were also many and he made rich gifts to the Hindu temples.
 Tippu Sultan "Tiger of Karnataka" was killed in 1799 A.D., and the Mysore throne was handed back to the Wodeyar's. 
The whole of Karnataka came under the control of the British in the beginning of the 19th century and the new state was named as new Mysore and the Maharaja of Mysore was appointed Governor by Independent India. 
Mysore - the former capital of the erstwhile Wodeyars and also of the State of Mysore lost its prominence to Bangalore.
The recorded history of Mysore City, which was a principal town of a district, goes back to 10th century AD. 
After witnessing many vicissitudes and remaining for centuries the headquarters of a small principality, Mysore, for well nigh two centuries lost out to Srirangapatna as a city of any consequence. 
It was Raja Wodeyar who, in 1610, set up headquarters at Srirangapatna after asserting his independence from the Vijayanagar viceroy. 
The centre of gravity shifted back to Mysore with the court starting to function once again and the population emigrating to it from Srirangapatna. 
It was administered under the British Commission from 1831 to 1881 after a spell of governance under the great Dewan Purnaiah, who survived the Hyder-Tippu era.
The city really started growing into its present form after the Rendition of 1881 when the throne was restored to Chamarajendra Wodeyar, the scion of the royal family, who ruled the State for 13 years till his death in 1894. 
Chamarajendra Wodeyar and later the Maharani Regent commissioned a number of important buildings, besides putting some order in the City's by now visible growth. 
But the credit for its blossoming into the city that we are familiar with goes to the long spell of rule of Krishnaraja Wodeyar, the Saint King and prince among builders, the Silver Jubilee of whose reign was celebrated in 1927. 
The foundation of the City's spacious and excellently planned layouts had already been laid during the administration of Dewans Seshadri Iyer and M. Visveswaraya.
With the Silver Jubilee Spirit of the celebrations of Krishnaraja Wodeyar's rule, the city invested with much of its remarkable aesthetics - new parks and boulevards and some noteworthy additions to its architectural scene. 
Sir Mirza Ismail (Dewan from 1926 to 1941), a great aesthete himself, did much to enhance the City's aesthetics.
Mysore in spite of being ruled by different Rulers and Kingdoms for ages still retains its old charm and stately beauty. 
There are many 'not-to-be-missed' sights in Mysore like the magnificent Mysore Palace, Sri Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, St. Philomena's Church, and KRS Brindavan Gardens.
With founding of Mysore dynasty in 1399 AD by Yaduraya, Mysore has seen 24 rulers. 
Till emergence of Raja Wodeyar in 1578 AD, the Mysore Kingdom was a small feudatory Kingdom under the Vijayanagar Empire. 
With the fall of Vijayanagar Empire in 1565 AD, the Wodeyars inherited and perpetuated the traditions of Vijayanagar Empire. 
Raja Wodeyar ascended the throne in 1610 AD, in Srirangapatna the erstwhile capital and inaugurated the Dashara Festivities which are still celebrated with all grandeur.
 The most celebrated Kings after Raja Wodeyar who contributed to the cultural heritage of Mysore are Ranadhira Kanthirava Narasaraja Wodeyar (1638 -1659 AD), Chikka Devaraja Wodeyar (1673 -1704 AD), Mummadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar (III) (1799 - 1868 AD), Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar (IV) (1902 -1940 AD) and Jayachamarajendra Wodeyar from 1940 till the establishment of the Republic of India.
Between 1761 and 1799, Hyder Ali along with his son Tippu Sultan ruled the State.
 With the defeat of Tippu Sultan by the British at Srirangapatna in 1799, five years old Prince Krishnaraja Wodeyar (III) was installed the King of Mysore on the throne of his ancestors.
Wodeyars contributed a great deal towards arts and culture. Palaces, temples, the Mysore school of traditional painting, women's schools and colleges and music maestros bear witness to the liberal grants and patronage of Mysore kings.
 Mysore was the only highly industrialized and progressive native state in India in steel, silk, soaps and hydro-electricity. 
The kingdom was benefited from visionaries like Sir Mirza Ismail and Sir M. Visveswaraya who served under the Wodeyars.
Mysore is the cultural capital of Karnataka. 
The palaces which were built for the kings and their families were not only for pleasure but they are glowing with artistic beauty, hence they attract people from all the parts of the world.
Some of the palaces have now become attraction for visitors, some of them are government offices and some are hotels, and university office. 
Some of them are Mysore Palace, Jaganmohan Palace, Jayalakshmi Vilasa, Lalitha Mahal etc.
It has been written in "Shrimanmaharaja's Vamshaavali" that kings of Mysore were living in one palace in Mysore in 14th Century.
After this palace was destroyed by lightning. in AD 1638, it was re-constructed by "Ranadheera Kantheerava Narasaraja wodeyar". 
This is the oldest accurate information available regarding the Mysore palace.
 It is known from history that palaces like "Soundarya Vilasa", "Naama Teertha" etc and 11 canons were placed in the palaces in different places.
It is said that in 1793 in order to build a new city called as "Nazarabad", Tippu Sultan demolished all the old buildings including the palace except temples. 
In 1799 during the thronging ceremony of the prince due to unavailability of the palace the ceremony took place in Nazarabad under a Pandal.
For this reason due to the requirement of a palace, a new palace was built in Hindu architectural style during 1800-1803. 
Because the palace was built in a very small duration of 2 years by the end of 19th centaury, it was in a bad condition and some of the parts started crumbling. 
Also in 1897 during the wedding ceremony of princess Jayalakshmmanni most of the parts of the palace were burnt down by fire. 
Hence in order to bring back the glory of the Mysore palace the queen, then representative of the king’s family thought of building new palace which would be similar to the old palace. 
The construction in charge was taken by B. P. Raghavulu Naidu who was Executive engineer in the Mysore palace division. 
He made elaborate studies on architecture that had to be applied for the new palace by visiting Delhi, madras and Calcutta and made plans for the new palace.
 This is the magnificent and a masterpiece palace which is standing in front of us and visited by hundreds of people from all over the world daily.
The main building is built of grey marble stone and is three stories. 
On top of this is a five storied domes which are covered with gold.
 It is 145 Ft in height from ground level to the top of the dome. 
There are five of the domes (Kalash) and they were established in 1914.
This palace is built around a place called "Thotti" which is a large open space to the east of round floor there is huge elephant door. 
To the south there is huge and beautiful Kalyana Mantap where festivities take place. 
On the first floor facing eastern direction there is "Durbar Hall" or Court yard. 
For conducting personal meetings there is "Amba Vilas" in this floor.
This beautiful building is 245 Ft in length and 156 Ft in width. 
There are fires extinguishing machines located in all parts of the palace in order to prevent any fires.
There are forts on the western side of the palace which is almost in a square shape and has five entrances and is built in indi-cerasenic style. 
To the east there is a huge main entrance called "Jaya Maarthaanda", to the north is "Jayarama" and "Balarama", to the south is "Varaha" , to the west is "Brahma Puri" and "Kari Kallu thotti" Main gates.
On Sundays, national holidays and during dashara Navarathri festival, the palace is lit up with lights which is festival for eyes and is a experience of a life time in viewing the palace in full lights at night!!. 
There are gardens in front of the palace where people can sit and enjoy the beauty of the palace.
Let us see the other palaces that make mysore "Palace City".
This palace is towards the western part of the famous Mysore palace and at a walk able distance.
Until the completion of the main palace auditorium in 1912 all the annual day and Dashara festival celebration were taking place here.
 There is beautiful and artistic man tap in front of this palace. 
Wedding ceremony of "Naalvadi Krishnaraja Wodeya" and "Shri Kantheerava Narasimharaja Wodeyar" took place in this palace.
This palace was built by "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the third ".
The crowning ceremony of "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the fourth" also took place here in 1902.
 This place was used for staying of royal family until the new palace was built and it was used for entertainment afterwards.
 Now this is a famous art gallery which consists of paintings by famous Indian painter "Raja Ravivarma". 
The large auditorium is used for major cultural events in Mysore.
This is now the administrative office of University of Mysore (UOM) and folklore museum. 
It was built in 1901 by then king of mysore "Chamaraja Wodeyar" for his elder daughter.
This palace is to the western side of "Kukkara Halli Lake" and located approximately 4 KM from mysore palace.
This is second in size, beauty and famous among the palaces. 
The foundation stone was laid in November 18, 1921 by "Krishnaraja Wodeyar the fourth". 
This palace gets its beauty by the Chamundi hill to its backside and is located towards east of Mysore city. 
The palace is eye catching by its whiteness which comes from the granite stone brought from Italy for the construction.
Now this palace is a five star hotel and attracts VIPs and tourists from foreign countries and rich people.
This palace was built in 1842 and used as "Special School" for young princes. 
The palace is built in 36 acres surrounded by gardens. 
The specialty of this palace is that the facing portions of the palace are made of soft iron. 
This building looks beautiful and artistic. 
This palace was a hotel for a long time and currently locked for visitors.
Built in 1880, this palace was school for "Chamaraja Wodeyar", "Krishnaraja Wodeyar", and young princes. 
This is also called as summer palace. 
A swimming pool has been built in a modern style and joining to this palace is the zoo garden.
This palace was built for the third princess during 1910-11 and is beautiful to view. 
The dome atop the palace adds to the beauty of the palace. 
This palace is now the famous CFTRI (Central Food Technology and Research Institute) and is in very good condition.
The construction started in 1902 and was completed in 1932; it is built in Indo-Greek style and encompasses 38 acres of land. 
This palace is located next to "Karanji Kere" lake on the way to Lalithamahal palace.
This palace was a hotel for some time and currently this is crumbling without any maintenance, visitors are not allowed to this palace.