Lutyen’s is an elegant Indian restaurant with an old-world charm you’ll find hard to resist.
Although Shimla is a city teeming with restaurants, there isn’t anything quite like the restaurant at the Oberoi Cecil.
Indian and colonial influences are apparent in Lobby Lounge, The Oberoi Cecil soaring five-storey atrium, with its polished wooden floor and rich silk upholstery.
If you have a taste for fine wines, spirits and cigars, the Cavalry Bar is sure to be a satisfying experience.
The carpeted wooden floors. High ceilings and huge windows with views of the cedar forest and surrounding peaks are sure to induce a happy sense of well-being. 
Rendezvous is one of the better restaurant on the Mall and the place to head for when you’re hankering for some Thai food.
The German Bakery is one of the best places for a scrumptious breakfast, it is known for such baked goodies as cakes, cookies, muffins and doughnuts. 
Chug Fa, Shimla, this Chinese restaurant is very popular with those on a shoestring budget.
Chug Fa’s food is definitely worth more than you pay for it and enjoy sumptuous servings of soups, noodles and steaming dumplings. 
Johnson’s Café is arguably the most popular restaurant in Manali, though bright, clean and cheerful, the décor isn’t much to write home about; the king here is undeniably the food.
Johnson’s Cafe is the perfect place for those who appreciate grilled trout and sumptuous Italian fare.
Il ferno located on the road between Manali town and the bridge to Old Manali, it’s crisp cheesy pizzas and fresh, crunchy salads deserve a mention for the wonders they do with veggies, 
Chonor House, Dharamshala, is perfect for lunch and you are sure to enjoy the fabulous Tibetan and Thai food on offer.
Finish your meal with a hot cappuccino and a mouthwatering pastry from the restaurant’s selection of sweet treats.
McLeodganj is culinary heaven for those who crave Tibetan food, fill yourself to the brim with momos, noodles and Thukpa at any of the restaurant that litter this colorful town.
Finding authentic Himachali food is as difficult as looking for the proverbial needle in a haystack.
The Judge’s Court Heritage Resort relies entirely on local, organic produce and flavours to rustle up Himachali food in Pragpur
In a quaint village amazing chicken curry, exotic herbs and home ground masalas made it one the most divine experience.
The Tibetan shops near the Post Office in Manali and a few in Vashishtha deal in silver and turquoise jewellery, Thangkas and antiques.
Thanks to The Mall’s elevated status as the capital of Himachal, Shimla sells handicrafts from the entire state-Kullu caps, Kinnauri woolens, Chamba rummals and lots more.
The most delightful stuff to take home from Shimla consists of freshly bottled mushroom pickle, apple and cinnamon jam, and apple litchi juices.
If you’re artistically inclined, you might like to pick up some Kangra and Basholi miniatures from the Bhuri Singh Museum in Chamba and the Kangra Art Museum in Lower Dharamshala.
Akhara Bazaar is a great place to pick up colourful Kullu shawls and caps.
Almost every house in the valley possesses a loom, so if you walk around a bit, might strike a good bargain with a weaver. 
In Akhara Bazaar other interesting buys include woolen socks, a small quilt called Gudma, and grass slippers (known as pullan) made for goat hair and Bhang fibre. 
Andretta pottery is usually light, colourful and highly aesthetic.
Andretta pottery’s kiln-fired glaze and attractive rangoli design make it rather distinctive.
The Chukh is the signature ginger-garlic chutney from Chamba.
You will find Chamba Chukh in shops all over Dalhousie in two version mild and mouth fire. 
Some of the best places to buy locally knitted sweaters, shawls, caps and mufflers are the Mall in Shimla, the Bhutti Weavers Colony (6 km from Kullu town), the Mall in Manali, McLeodganj, and the various state emporia that dot Himachal Pradesh.
Dharamshala is the headquarters of the Tibetan government in exile and a treasurehouse of all things Tibetan.
You’ll find Tibetan carpets, CDs with folk music and chants, herbs, thangkas; mask, and idols of the Buddha.
Himachal Pradesh excellent for shawls.
Lovely thick shawls are available everywhere, especially in Shimla, and make the perfect wrap for chilly winters. 
Pick up some traditional Himachal woolen caps, which, by the way, are de rigeur in Paris right now.
Famous and much loved festival of northern India is called Kullu Dussehra, begins in October on the day that the rest of the country stops celebrating in Himachal.
Locally known as ‘Ookayand’, Phulaich is a gorgeous festival of flowers mainly celebrated in Kinnaur district, on the 16th September every year, 10 men of the Rajput clan go to the mountains to collect flowers.
Gochi is an unusual festival, which takes place in February in the Bhaga valley, where villagers celebrate the birth of male children and token marriages for children below the age of six are also performed.
Celebrated at the end of the month of Magha (in January-february), Magha Naun festival marks the return of the Gods to earth from heaven.
Priests at the local temples channel the voice of the gods to gathered villagers and answer questions about the future and offer solutions to problems.
Pori festival is celebrated in Lahaul with enormous fanfare.
The idol of Lord Tirloknath is bathed in milk and yougurt
Amidst the ringing of conch shells, a butter lamp, continually refilled by devotees, is lighted to burn through the day till the festival is over.
A procession with a horse, on whose bamk it is believed Lord Triloknath sits, is carried out through the town.
Shivratri fair is held for 8-10 days and the decorated idols of many gods and goddess are taken through the town of Mandi to the Mahadev temple.
Phagli festival of the Lahaul valley is celebrated in Phagun, the last month of winter and the beginning of the spring season.
Phagli is also a predominantly agricultural festival and has its own folk traditions.
People shoot arrows at a picture of Ravana, to signify the victory of the gods over demons.
The Ghantal festival is celebrated on a full moon light in the month of June at the Guru Ghantal monastery in Lahaul valley.
Duing the first month of the lunar calendar Chaitra (in march-april), falls Ralli Puja, a beautiful celebration when the unmarried girls of the village make small statues of Shiva and Parvati to worship through the month and then immerse in the river, praying for good husband.
Halda is celebrated in Lahaul, and is something of a private welcoming of the new year.
Lavi, held in November every year in the sleepy hamlet of Rampur Bushahr on the banks of River Sutlej, this centuries old fair is hugely popular and well attended.
Lavi festival is famous for its Chinese handcrafted jewellery, carpets, wool, shawls, dry fruits and Cahumkhi horses brought for sale.
The festival of Lohri, also known as Maghi, is celebrated in most areas of Himachal in the mid-winter season and commemorates the last sowing of the Rabi crop.
Basant Panchami marks the arrival of spring in the lower parts of Himachal Pradesh.
The sky is filled with colorful kites, as in the rest of the country, and children have the best time of it, with fierce competitions over the kites.
A fascinating and wonderfully colourful monsoon festival, Minjar is an occasion when the woman of Himachal villages place specially prepared sweets and savoury delicacies on large platters and, singing mournful songs, takes them to be immersed in the river.
Nalwari Fair is an essence a cattle fair, held in month of march in Bilaspur. 
Lossar is celebrated in Buddhist areas throughout the state in February, but Lahaul’s monasteries have some of the most spectacular performances you will ever see.
On the eve of the Lossar Festival, the stylished Chhaam dance, often called the ‘devil dance’, is performed.
Lossar Festival commemorates the assassination of the cruel Tibetan King Langdrama in the 9th century.
The Mughal described Kashmir as paradise on the earth.
Every summer, Mughals would travel from their capital cities in the plains of India to their beloved valley.
The enchanting beauty of Kashmir is evident in its lofty mountain ranges, lush green meadows, fascinating glaciers and tranquil waterbodies.
The world famous Dal Lake and the Mughal Gardens, the Royal Springs Golf Course in Srinagar, an unparalleled setting for the game, is a must-visit.
The powder-soft snow at Gulmarg, Gund, Pahalgam and Sonamarg, ideal for skiing, has been acclaimed the world over.
In Jammu, the winter capital of the State, the serenity of Patnitop spells magic and the shrine of Vaishno Devi attracts millions each year.
There is Ladakh, with a distinct culture and topography.
With the highest motorable road at 18,300 ft across Khardungla to Nobra Valley, this is a haven for thrill seekers.
The sight and sounds in Jammu and Kashmir will eliminate urban blues-serene winter, golden summer, fiery autumn or colourful spring, each season is special when you are in Jammu and Kashmir.
You really can use the word ‘unique’ for staying in wood-panelled luxe rooms in a boat, floating on the waters of the Dal or Nagin, or the river Jhelum.
All the houseboats in Srinagar are marked by personalized service, usually from the owner and his family.
Our pick are the Claremont houseboats at Naseem Bagh in Srinagar that offer Raj-style hospitality and a spectacular location, anchored as they are to a private chinar garden in a quiet corner of the Dal.
Pine and Peak Hotel is the perfect choice to enjoy the stunning scenery and leisure activities that Pahalgam affords, the hotel will arrange for fishing and golfing closeby.
Opt for one of the two suites, done up in Shabistan Khwabgah style, Khwabgah means ‘dreamhouse’; figure out the rest.
Circled by splendid Himalayas, Inter Continental The Grand Palace was once the palace residence of the Maharajas, and its enviable location offers beautiful views of Srinagar’s central showpiece, the Dal.
Originally built in 1910, the spacious rooms at The Grand Palace two storey hotel look out on hoary chinars and beautiful gardens.
The Highland Park hotel, renowned for its elegance, is now owned by a Kashmiri family.
Located just above the beginner ski slopes in a beflowered meadow, overlooked by beautiful hills, its views of the Gulmarg valley are calendar worthy. 
Drass, 60 km west of Kargil on the way to Srinagar, is the second coldest place in the world, but the summers here are beautiful.
Government guesthouse at Drass lies in the middle of the most beautiful and unspoilt highland pasture.
Selected villages along the Markha and Sham trekking routs offer a comfortable Ladakhi style room, traditional food, and the opportunity to live the Ladakhi way.
Not many people know the Bhadarwah Valley, which is a must visit in Jammu.
In Kashmir Pahalgam is the most spectacular.
The best place to stay in Srinagar would be the Grand Palace- overlooking the Dal and the mountains behind, its location is unique. 
Usually a wedding or party menu, the Wazawan includes succulent dishes such as rishta (meatballs), kebab, Tabak Maz (mildly flavoured ribs, batter-fried), Roganjosh (the real thing, not the plains’ version), Yakhni (meat, delicately flavoured with aniseed and curd), and Gushtaba (meatballs in curd gravy).
Dum aloo (made without onion or garlic, the true Kashmiri way), Chaman (Paneer) dishes, especially with Methi, Nadru (lotusroot) and Haak, Kashmiri spinach.
Forget the white, the brown and rye in Kashmir; try the local basket of breads.
Kashmiri Sheermal is thick and mildly sweetened.
The Baqerkhani, comparable to a puff pastry, is sure to make any breakfast a special affair.
Tsot and Tsochvoru are small round breads, topped with poppy and sesame seeds, usually eaten with salt tea.
The Kulcha is sweet or savoury, sometimes flavoured with aniseed.
For the change from Kashmiri cuisine, try Ladakhi food.
Must tries are thukpa, the roasted barley flour called Ngampe,and Skyu, a pasta type dish with root vegetables.
You can get a real treat- the Hirsa, or meat cooked in dough covered Degh for hours and hours, usually cooked overnight, to end up in a melt in your mouth pasty consistency.
Waremoth, a brown Moth (lentil) cooked and spiced, until it is thick in consistency and served, similarly, on Naan.
The green Kashmiri tea, Kahwa, honey colored brew, fragrant with saffron, almond and cinnamon.
Kashmir’s superlative feasts, the Wazawan with its silken, curd-rich gravies.
The Sheerchai, made of green tea leaves boiled for half an hour with bicarbonate of soda, salt, milk, and cream; it is pink and salty, even though it’s contrarily called Sheer (sweet).
If you leave out the milk and cream from Sheerchai, it is called Nunchi (salty tea).