After the United States purchased the vast Louisiana Purchase, Lewis and Clark followed the Missouri River across the Dakotas in 1804-06.
The fur trade inspired the founding of Fort Pierre, the first permanent settlement, in 1817.
What is now South Dakota was once claimed by France?
The lands that make up South Dakota were purchased from France in 1803 as part of the Louisiana Purchase.
About three-quarters of all the church members in South Dakota belong to Protestant denominations.
About two-fifths of the Protestants are Lutherans, and there are many Methodists, Baptists, and Presbyterians.
Native Americans, most of whom are of the Dakota (Sioux) people, were 8.3 percent of the population, blacks 0.6 percent, Asians 0.6 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 1.8 percent.
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 261. Hispanics, who may be of any race, were 1.4 percent of the people.
The State Capital is Pierre, other major cities or towns include Sioux Falls, Rapid City, Aberdeen, Watertown, Brookings, Mitchell, Yankton, Huron, Vermillion.
The Cornhusker State, Beef State, Nebraska is named from an Oto Indian word meaning 'flat water'.
Nebraska is located on North-Central USA and is bordered by South Dakota (North), Iowa (East), Missouri (southeast), Kansas (south), Colorado (Southwest) and Wyoming to the West.
The highest elevation is the Panhandle in southwestern Kimball at 5,424 feet. The lowest elevation is the Missouri River at 840 feet.
Western Nebraska was under the control of the horse-riding, buffalo-hunting, semi-nomadic groups of the Sioux, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and Potawatome.
Fur trading played an important role in Nebraska’s pre-territorial history.
French traders and trappers, including the Mallett brothers who named the Platte River, were the first known white visitors.
They traveled through Nebraska from 1700 to 1760, In 1804m the Lewis and Clark expedition mapped the eastern boundary of Nebraska.
In 1806, Lt. Zebulon M. Pike visited the south central Nebraska as part of a government program to explore the newly acquired Louisiana Purchase.
Other early explorers included the Hunt party in 1811 and Major Long’s expedition in 1819.
Among the early trading groups was the St. Louis Missouri Fur Company, Manual Lisa established a post for this company in 1812 near the site where Lewis and Clark held council with Indian tribes in present Washington County.
In 1820 a nearby camp became a permanent army post called Fort Atkinson. The post was established to discourage British encroachment and to protect America’s western frontier. Bellevue, founded in 1823, was the first permanent settlement.
As the United States expanded to the west, the Platte Valley trails of Nebraska became the major highways.
Gold seekers, Mormons and migrants on their way to California and Oregon were among the thousands of pioneers using the overland trails between 1840 and 1860.
Fort Kearny was established along the route to protect these travelers.
Nebraska City and other towns on the Missouri River became shipping centers and supplied both the military outposts and the new settlers.
From April 3, 1860 to October 24, 1861, Pony Express riders carried their mail across the area.
In 1854, the Kansas-Nebraska Act was passed by Congress, organizing the Nebraska Territory. 
The Homestead Act of 1862 allowed settlers to claim 160 acres of land free in eastern Nebraska and statehood was granted on March 1, 1867, in a proclamation signed by President Andrew Johnson.
The Union Pacific was completed across Nebraska in 1867, and the lines of the Burlington system crisscrossed most of the state by the mid- 1880s.
Many early railroads received land grants from the state and federal governments to offset the cost of construction.
These lands were sold to settlers through extensive advertising campaigns, with some companies sending representatives to Europe to encourage immigrants to come to Nebraska.
Nebraska showed continued growth until the farm depressions of the 1890s.
By 1900 most of the prime land in the state was settled, and larger claims were needed for profitable farming and ranching.
In 1904 an act introduced by Congressman Moses Kinkaid of Nebraska was passed.
The Kincaid Act increased the size of the homesteads from 160 to 640 acres.
Blacks, most of whom live in the Omaha metropolitan area, constitute 4 percent of the population, Asians 1.3 percent, Native Americans 0.9 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 4.2 percent.
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 836. Hispanics, who may be of any race, are 5.5 percent of the people.
Much of the state's population is descended from European immigrants who came to Nebraska in the late 19th century.
Germans, Czechs, Swedes, Danes, Irish, and Italians were especially numerous and often remain concentrated in close-knit communities today.
The State Capital is Lincoln, other major cities or towns include Omaha, Bellevue, Grand Island, Kearney, Fremont, Hastings, North Platte, Norfolk and Columbus.
Sunflower State, Cyclone State (lots of tornadoes), Jayhawk State, Kansas (French) was named after the Dakota Sioux Indian word KaNze, which means 'south wind' or 'people of the south wind'.
Kansas is located in the east-central Great Plains and is bordered by Nebraska on the north, Missouri (east), Oklahoma (south), and Colorado (west).
Eastern Kansas was occupied by the Osage, Pawnee, Kansa, and Wichita Indians, western Kansas by the Arapaho, Cheyenne, Commanche, and Kiowa.
France ceded lands including present Kansas to Spain in the Treaty of Paris of 1763, which ended the French and Indian Wars.T
Considered unsuitable for U.S. settlement, the region was designated a permanent home for Native Americans in the 1830s, and northern and eastern tribes were relocated there.
The Kaw Indians were removed from their reservation in Morris County to Oklahoma Territory in 1874, thus opening this land for white settlement.
The last Indian battle in Kansas occurred on September 27, 1878, when Chiefs Dull Knife and Little Wolf of the Northern Cheyenne fought the U.S. Cavalry on present Beaver Creek, just south of Scott County State Park.
Some 248 Indians, including women and children, were fleeing rom confinement and starvation on the reservation in Oklahoma (Indian Territory) to their home lands in Yellowstone.
The first European known to have visited the region was the Spanish explorer Francisco de Coronado, during his search for Quivira, a fabled kingdom of riches, in 1541.
Lewis and Clark passed through the region during their 1803-1806 expedition to the Pacific Ocean.
Lieutenant Zebulon Pike of the U.S. Army followed the Arkansas River across the Kansas area en route to Colorado in 1806.
Stephen H. Long conducted a scientific expedition across the area in 1819.
The first permanent settlements in Kansas were outposts, Fort Leavenworth (1827), Fort Scott (1842), and Fort Riley (1853), established to protect travelers along the Santa Fe and Oregon Trails.
France and Spain both owned the area, though neither established a strong presence.
France ceded the territory of West Louisiana (including Kansas) to Spain in the Treaty of Paris of 1763, which ended the French and Indian Wars. In 1800, Spain gave it back to France.
The U.S. purchased an immense tract of land from France in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. The new lands included present Kansas.
Kansas was Organized as a territory on May 30, 1854 and became the 34th state to unite under America on January 29, 1861.
In 2000 whites made up 86.1 percent of the population, blacks 5.7 percent, Asians 1.7 percent, Native Americans 0.9 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 5.5 percent.
Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 1,313.
Although a few black people in Kansas live in rural areas, the majority live in the Wichita, Topeka, and Kansas City metropolitan areas.
Germans, Swedes, and other groups from western Europe were important components of the early settlement of Kansas.
The State Capital is Topeka, other major cities or towns include Wichita, Kansas City, Overland Park, Olathe, Lawrence, Salina, Shawnee, Manhattan, Leavenworth.
Sooner State, Boomer's Paradise (early illegally land claimers), Oklahoma was named by Native American missionary Allen Wright by combining two Choctaw words: 'ukla ("person") and humá ("red"); thus, Oklahoma means "red person."
Oklahoma is located in the southern Great Plains, with eastern Oklahoma in the Central Lowlands and is bordered by Kansas on the north, Missouri (east), Arkansas (northeast), Texas (south and west), and New Mexico & Colorado (northwestern tip).
The highest elevation is Black Mesa in Cimarron County at 4,973 feet while the lowest elevation is Little River in McCurtain County at 289 feet.
The 1st European was Spanish explorer Francisco Coronado who almost certainly crossed what is now Oklahoma in 1541 during his search for the "Lost City of Gold."
Hernando De Soto may have visited eastern Oklahoma, while Juan de Oñate later passed through western Oklahoma, French traders from Louisiana also visited Oklahoma.
The first European trading post was allegedly established at Salina by the Chouteau family of St. Louis before Oklahoma was given to the Unites States as part of the Louisiana Purchase of 1803.
When Europeans first visited the region, the Wichita and other relatively sedentary Indian tribes inhabited the east.
Western Oklahoma was dominated by Plains tribes, notably the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache.
Things began to change when eastern tribes began to move westward into Oklahoma, most of them pushed out by white settlers.
Osage Indians settled in the rich woodlands of northeastern Oklahoma around 1796.
After they were forced to cede their lands to the United States in 1825, the Osage moved to Kansas territory.
When Kansas was opened to white settlers i n 1870, Congress sold the rest of the Osage lands, turned the money over to the tribe and opened a reservation for them which later became Osage County.
After oil was struck on this land, the Osage became the wealthiest people per capita in the United States.
The Quapaw tribe sold 45 million acres of their land south of the Arkansas river to the U.S. government for $18,000 before 1820.
The homeless tribe settled near the Red River on land received from the Caddos, a tribe from Texas.
Scattered by successive crop failures, the survivors reorganized in 1890, obtaining a sliver of property in northeastern Indian Territory.
The lands which the Osage and Quapaw had ceded to the United States government were set aside for Indians who were being relocated from their tribal homes in the Southeast.
After the War of 1812 the U.S. government invited the Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek and Seminole Indians to move west into what would become the Indian Territory. Later, they were forced to move.
By 1856, each of the Five Civilized Tribes established territorial boundaries in the frontier.
Oklahoma's Indians were generally left in peace by whites until the Civil War.
During the war, Indians who tried to remain neutral were attacked by Confederate forces.
After the Civil War, the federal government punished the Five Civilized Tribes for siding with the Confederacy by taking away the western part of Indian Territory, which would become Oklahoma Territory.
Chief Black Kettle was a Southern Chief chief who gained famed as an outspoken proponent of peace with white men.
The Indians were to receive certain goods in return, but the government didn't live up to its promises.
Several bands of Cheyenne and Arapaho grew impatient, carrying out raids on government installations and many inhabitants.
Just before dawn on November 27, 1868, Lt. Col. George A. Custer led the 7th U.S. Cavalry in an attack on a peaceful Indian encampment.
Among the dead were Black Kettle and his wife. The massacre is remembered as the Battle of the Washita, commemorated by Washita Battlefield National Historic Site.
The Washita massacre was the last major confrontation between whites and Indians in Oklahoma.
Custer later met his end at the hands of Sioux and Cheyenne warriors in Montana.
Another symbol of resistance was the famous Apache warrior Geronimo, who battled white invaders in the Southwest until he was captured and incarcerated in Oklahoma, where he died of old age.
It included the "Panhandle," a narrow strip of territory taken from Texas by the Compromise of 1850.
Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory were united under America on November 16, 1907.
Today, Oklahoma boasts the largest Native American population in the nation (252,420).
Of the total population in 2000, whites constitute 76.2 percent, Native Americans 7.9 percent, blacks 7.6 percent, Asians 1.4 percent, Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders 0.1 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 6.9 percent.
The State Capital is Oklahoma City, other major cities or towns include Tulsa, Norman, and Lawton.
Lone Star State, Texas was named from the Caddo Indian word teysha, or tejas, which means "hello friend."
Texas is located the South (Gulf of Mexico) and Central Lowlands and is bordered by Arkansas on the northeast, Louisiana (east), Gulf of Mexico (south), Mexico (southwest), New Mexico (northwest), and Oklahoma (north).
The highest elevation is Guadalupe Peak in Culberson County at 8,749 feet while the lowest elevation is the Gulf of Mexico at sea level.
National Parks & Monuments include Big Bend, Big Thicket, Guadalupe Mountains, Alibates Flint Quarries.