First occupied by the French in 1764, the islands were quickly ceded to Spain, which then ruled the adjacent territory in Latin America.
However, the Spanish only established themselves on West Falkland and, in 1765; the British took control of the eastern island.
By 1816, both powers had removed their respective garrisons and the Falkland Islands had no permanent inhabitants.
A vessel from newly independent Argentina was sent in 1820 to establish a permanent settlement but was driven out by a British expedition in 1832.
The British declared full sovereignty over the Falkland Islands the following year.
Argentina refused to recognize British sovereignty and has maintained a consistent claim to sovereignty ever since.
This claim was pursued periodically through diplomatic channels until 1982, when an Argentine force overran the British garrison and established a military base on 'Islas Malvinas', a name derived from the original French settlers, who named the islands after their home port of St Malo.
After various attempts at negotiation and mediation had failed, a British task force, which had been dispatched at the start of the crisis, was ordered to continue its journey and engage the Argentines.
Argentina formally surrendered on 14 June, 10 weeks after the invasion.
In the subsequent contact between the two governments, it has become apparent that the issue of sovereignty is a stumbling block and that the Falkland Islands' issue will remain a key aspect of Argentine foreign policy in the foreseeable future.
The Falkland Islands are home to a plethora of marine life, from five different species of penguins to whales and sea birds that hover around Stanley Harbour.
Nineteenth-century shipwrecks await exploration, while battlefields in the 1982 conflict such as Goose Green and Pebble Island have become tourist attractions.French Guiana was discovered by the Spanish in 1496, who established a few settlements in 1503 and 1504.
The French first moved in a century later.
Numerous changes in control followed over the next 200 years, alternating between France, Britain, the Netherlands and Portugal, until the territory was finally confirmed as French in 1817.
The colony enjoyed a brief period of prosperity in the 1850s when gold was discovered, but afterwards went into a decline from which it has never fully recovered.
French Guiana was finally given French Overseas Department status in 1946, under which the territory effectively became an integral part of the French nation.
However, the territory was largely neglected by Paris and continued to deteriorate until civil unrest broke out in the 1970s.
After a security crackdown, the central government promised various improvements.
These failed to materialize until the Mitterrand presidency, under which a series of reforms was introduced in 1982-83.
Some decentralization also took place: local affairs are now dealt with by the Regional Council.
French Guiana has the benefit of an ideal geographical situation, set between the Caribbean and the Amazon.
Little wonder, then, that its environment is so rich.
Visitors may have the privilege of observing a great many protected species in carefully preserved areas.
French Guiana is also home to a colorful blend of different cultural backgrounds.
A native land, a land of exploration and a land of enslavement, the extraordinary history of French Guiana has left its traces in every sector of today's society and can still be sensed in a number of almost mythical places: Iles du Salut, which include the infamous Devil's Island where political prisoners were held, Mount Favard, the Saint-Laurent du Maroni transportation camp and the Iracoubo Church.
French Guiana is also a land of social progress and a symbol of modernity as is demonstrated in Kourou, the main French Space Centre.
From encounters with authentic cultures, to watching the birth of the leatherback turtles, from life as a convict in a penal colony to travelling by canoe down majestic rivers, from panning for gold to watching toucans fly or following the vapour trail of Ariane, French Guiana has a lot to offer.
When Columbus reached the northern coast of South America at the beginning of the 16th century, the area that is now Guyana was inhabited by two distinct groups, the Arawak who lived along the coast and the Carib who lived in the interior.
The Spanish were not attracted by the region, however, and it was the Dutch who first established a European presence around 1616.
At the heart of it was the trading post at the mouth of the Essequibo River, which was controlled, along with other posts established later on, by the Dutch West India Company.
The Dutch remained in undisputed control until the end of the 18th century when the outbreak of the Napoleonic Wars brought a period of turmoil during which the territory changed hands several times between the Dutch, British and French.
The British ultimately prevailed following the defeat of Napoleon in 1815.
The territory was then declared the colony of British Guiana, a status which it retained until independence in 1996.
After the abolition of slavery in 1834, the plantation owners imported laborers from India.
Indians now form the largest racial group, with most living in the agricultural areas, particularly around Demerara.
Other immigrants were Americans, Europeans (Portuguese, British and Dutch) and Chinese.
Guyana's attractions range from the 19th-century stilted wooden houses of its capital, Georgetown, to the awesome natural splendors of the towering Kaieteur Falls along the Potaro River, five times the height of Niagara.
The country's mixture of rainforests, beaches, savannah and rivers draws adventure tourists hoping to camp, trek, fish or perhaps be lucky enough to spot a jaguar.
Paraguay is a little known landlocked country, which has found itself somewhat isolated from even its neighbors in the past by geography and politics.
Since 1811, when it became independent, Paraguay has been governed mainly by dictatorships and has endured a number of costly wars against neighboring countries.
However, Paraguay has taken a number of steps to overcome its political, economic and geographic situation and is building a more welcoming image.
The country can boast many attractions: grassy plains and an untamed wilderness of marshes, lagoons, dense forests, jungles, national parks, Jesuit missions and the Chaco, one of South America's great wilderness areas.
The country will particularly appeal to travelers who have already been to larger, more varied South American destinations, but who are now ready to experience the more subtle attractions of the continent such as learning about the Guarani Indians, watching Nanduti lace being made or seeing a jaguar or alligator.
In addition, Paraguay boasts breathtaking waterfalls where the borders of Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina come together.
For all these reasons, Paraguay is definitely a country worth discovering.
Perhaps no other country has more to offer the visitor than Peru: panoramic mountain ranges, vast deserts, beautiful beaches and tropical jungle.
All this combined with rich historical and archaeological past and enduring indigenous cultures.
The indigenous Inca civilization of what is now Peru was conquered by Spain in the early 16th century.
Spain ruled the country until the early 19th century.
The wars of independence, which expelled the Spanish from virtually the entire South American continent, reached Peru in the early 1820s.
After the 1821 declaration of independence, Peru was challenged by the royalists.
The new government appealed to the revolutionary leader, Simon Bolivar, for assistance, which proceeded to defeat the royalists at the Battle of Ayacucho in December 1824, after which he became head of state.
Relations between Peru and its neighbors were difficult in the early years of independence.
There were border disputes with Brazil and Ecuador, and especially with Chile.
The War of the Pacific broke out between Peru and Chile in 1879, with a complete victory for Chile and the loss to Peru of some southern territories.
Internal problems dominated the agenda for the next 30 years, as a series of governments struggled to keep the economy, which was almost completely destroyed as a result of the Pacific War, from disintegrating.
The first of Peru's many military coups was in 1914.
The junta lasted five years, before giving way to the civilian government of Augusto Leguia.
His tenure ended with another military take-over.
While the military has always been a powerful force in Peruvian politics, its principal opponent and the country's largest political party for much of the 20th century was the Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana (APRA), founded by Dr Victor Raul Haya de la Torre in 1924, as a continent-wide anti-imperialist movement.
Although increasingly moderate and Peruvian-centered in its appeal, APRA has nevertheless been illegal for much of its history.
Politics has also persistently been dogged by alleged – and sometimes proven – corruption.
The 'war on drugs' has long dominated relations between Peru and the USA.
Border disputes have also arisen; the most serious of these was with Ecuador over access to the Amazonian river system and control of the potentially mineral-rich Condor mountain range.
In early 1995, full-scale fighting broke out after talks broke down, continuing intermittently until a settlement was reached in 1999.
Just as complex is Peru's topography: divided into the three main geographical zones of costa (coast); sierra (mountains); and selva (rainforest).
Such diverse landscape generates diverse pleasures; Peru successfully offers history, archaeology, sports, beaches, mountains, medicinal springs, nature, fantastic landscapes, friendly people and mesmeric music.
Ancient archaeological remains and Nazca Lines augment Peru's sense of mystery, of possessing an awesomeness of both humankind and nature.
Surinam is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, the Marowijne River, French Guiana and Brazil.
By the time the Spanish arrived in the late15th century, the Surinen (the original inhabitants of Surinam) had been driven out by other Amerindian groups.
Fierce resistance to colonization deterred most would-be occupiers from Europe, although the territory formally changed hands many times between the Dutch, English and French, before finally being confirmed as a Dutch possession by the terms of the 1815 Treaty of Vienna.
At this time, the majority of the population was slaves, working on the plantations.
Despite the abolition of slavery in 1863, conditions changed very little until the early 20th century and the discovery of large bauxite deposits, which brought about a major change in the economic - and consequently, political - complexion of the country.
In 1954, Surinam, with the Netherlands Antilles, became an autonomous region within the Kingdom of The Netherlands.
Full independence was achieved in 1975.
While the 17th-century capital, Paramaribo, with its attractive colonial architecture, is a good starting point for any visitor, Surinam's main attraction is its tropical rainforest, which covers nearly 80 per cent of the country and is home to a huge variety of wildlife. Known as the 'Oriental Republic' because of its location on the eastern bank of the Rio de la Plata, Uruguay is one of the smallest of the South American republics.
Parts of the territory which is now Uruguay were settled by the Spanish in the 1620s and the Portuguese in the 1680s; as a result, Uruguay became a major bone of contention between these rival European powers.
The Spanish prevailed in the early 18th century, after the establishment of a settlement at San Felipe de Montevideo (which eventually became the Uruguayan capital) in 1726.
The formal creation of the Uruguayan state took place in 1828.
Throughout much of this early 19th-century period, the future Uruguay was occupied by Portuguese troops from neighboring Brazil; interventions – military and otherwise – by its larger neighboring powers were to become a recurrent feature of Uruguay's political history.
The conjunction between internal and external forces became apparent during the Great War of 1843-52, which centered on the siege of Montevideo, then under Colorado control, by Blanco forces.
The war, which was eventually won by the Colorados, established the pattern whereby Argentina and Brazil became the guarantors of Uruguayan independence, with the intervention of global powers on occasion – Britain and France in the 19th century, the USA in the 20th century.
Today, the country's economic health still relies heavily on its two large neighbors and main trading partners.
Although the tourism industry only brings in under US$1 billion annually, Uruguay is drawing increasingly more visitors each year, and for good reasons.
The country enjoys 500km (300 miles) of fine sandy beaches on the Atlantic and the Río de la Plata, woods, hills, hot springs, hotels, casinos, art festivals and numerous opportunities for sport and entertainment.
Montevideo, the capital, contains more than half of Uruguay's population.
Located on the River Plate, which has been one of the essential elements for the development of the territory, Montevideo is also the country's natural trading centre.
It is a delight for lovers of culture.
Museums, theatres, exhibitions, shows, popular feasts.
There is an intense agenda all year round and the city itself is a collection of art and history.
Originally inhabited by Carib and Arawak Indians, Venezuela was claimed as a Spanish territory by Christopher Columbus in 1498.
Spanish rule was administered from a distance, leaving the various regions to develop separately from the capital, Caracas, which was founded by Diego de Losada in 1567.
In the 18th century, an attempt to inject a measure of unification by the Spanish was met with widespread resistance and uprisings led by Simón Bolívar (after whom the currency is named).
In 1830, Venezuela became a sovereign state, led by José Paéz.
Today's politics are dominated by President Hugo Chávez, the leader of a coup attempt in 1992, who formed his own party and, drawing on the support of millions of disaffected poor people, won the 1998 presidential election.
Despite attempts by the opposition to remove him, Chávez's position remains secure for now.
In the 2005 parliamentary elections, his party won a majority of seats in the National Assembly.
Venezuela offers a myriad of landscapes and experiences - tropical beaches, immense plains, enormous rivers, forests, jungle, waterfalls and great mountains.
The clear, warm waters of its Caribbean coastline are ideal for snorkeling and diving, while numerous islands off the coast invite visitors to explore.
The tropical lowlands hide a huge array of wildlife, lush vegetation and dramatic waterfalls, yet within the same country lie high Andean peaks, providing a challenge to trekkers and mountaineers.