The new kid on the block, Olive Brook is just three years old.
Situatd in a eight-acre estate of cardamom (no olives despite the name), with stunning view of Munnar’s hills Olive Brook has aldready made a name for iself.
Because of its personalized service, what might otherwise have been just a quaint home stay is elevated to a don’t miss experience.
Olive Brook also holds cooking demonstrations of traditional Kerala cuisine.
If the cooking doesn’t hold your interest, eating will; the food is delicious.
The Malabar House, has long been the secret destination of the descerning travellers, but now the secret is out.
The winner of multiple awards for the best heritage hotel, an environmental certification by Green Globe and the patronage of the world’s jet – setters, this 18th-century colonial bungalow overlooking the Parade Maidan is a lovely little luxury hotel.
Interiors combine colonial with contemporary: punkhas hang in the large airy rooms (there’s also air-conditioning) and four poster beds comfort you to sleep.
A pool in the courtyard, riverside terraces, a new houseboat, and Malabar Junction, one of Keralas best restaurants…The Malabar House in Fort Kochi, deserves it’s place among India’s best hotels.                                                 
Have you ever wanted a treetop view of your own piece of paradise? Well Utharam Kayam is the place for it.
Tree house, Utharam Kayam is located in the Agasthya Hills, in the Neyyar forests, this is a virgin land, it means that you need to make quite an effort to get there.
Stay as Utharam Kayam is not terribly fancy, unless you count the fact that you are likely to be the only people for miles. Solitude’s priceless.
Gramam is the beautiful, traditional home of Jos and Lyma Byju, located on the backwaters in Kumbalangi.
Surrounded by farmland and not too far from Fort Kochi, Gramam Home stay in Kumbalangi offers two en suite rooms; it also has a 200 year – old mango tree, cahndakara, also the biggest tree in village.
Lagoona Davina is as individual as the lady it is called after.
The brainchild of Davina Taylor Phillips, this intimate guest house is set at the edge of a freshwater lagoon and has the stunning view of the Arabian sea.
In Lagoona Davina the rooms are rustic but but striking, like walking into a hippy fortune – teller’s , with ceiling drapes, richly colored walls, sari curtains and four - poster beds.
Relaxed and laidback the Lagoona Davina is the perfect place to do your imitation of a lotus- eater.
“On the waterfront” takes of a different meaning when you are in Brunton Boatyard hotel in Fort Kochi.
The exquisite Dutch- Style building has 22 rooms set around a vast courtyard, with high four- poster beds and ‘the best positioned bath in India’, offering great views out to sea.
Relax with a drink at The Armory Bar before digging into a delicious meal at the History Café where carefully guarded recipes have been coaxed out from Kerala’s old families.
Enjoy a Spice Coast Cruise as you float down Kerala’s famed backwaters in elegant houseboats.
Long before this land came to be the hottest destination in the World, Kerala had been drawing visitors of an altogether different kind.
Today, almost 60 years to the month, this landmark (Jayalakshmi Silk) on M.G.Road in Cochin is a must see for every tourist who graces her shores.
Begin your day with lacy appams, snack on flaky mutton samosas and fest on lobsters and jumbo karimeen. Have a delicious stay.
Philikitty’s farm, this cosy nook in Kumarkom is more popular as a home stay option, but it is also where you can try your hand at local dishes and even eat them.
Try the Syrian Christian specialties like duck roast, Karimeen fry, beef chilli fry, erachi ularthiatu (beef or lamb sautéed in roasted spices), meen Mmoilee, scampi and so on. 
MG Road Kochi, this busy – also overcrowded and noisy- arterial road is where you get the best of Kerala’s cuisine at a reasonable price.
The number of eateries on MG Road, with all their irresistible fare, will spoil your choice, but don’t miss the meen pollichathu (fish wrapped and cooked in banana leaves) at Grand Hotel.
If you are in the mood for stall – hopping, check out the thattukadas (carts) offering fish delicacies and even toddy to wash them down.
No trip to MG Road is completed without a bite at the Pai Dosa Shop.
Part of a chain, Indian Cofee House (ICH) on Kochi’s MG Road serves the strong brew unblended.
A cloud of smoke rises from each table as old pals catch over steaming cups of coffee (Rs.3.50 each) as busy waiters, in turbans and starched uniforms, take down orders for ICH’s legendary mutton cutlets and egg roasts.
The crowd in ICH thickens after office hours, so factor in some waiting time if you are planning to drop in after sundown.
The hip Kashi art café on Burgher street opens at 8.30 a.m. sharp, enacting the early birds with its range of cakes, fresh from the oven.
The Kashi art café also doubles as a watering hole for art lovers, thanks to the exhibitions and workshops held there.
If you time it well, you might also catch a theatre performance, another regular on the café calendar.
A sumptuous breakfast of appams and mutton or vegetable stew defines the perfect way to begin your day in Kerala.
The delicacies like, the meat puffs, are sold across Kerala – in thattukadas, hole-in-the-wall joints and even five star restaurants.
Get a splendid view of the harbour as you sample chef KC Joseph’s lacy appams.
There is no bakey in whole of Kerala that doesn’t sell those soft yet crisp meat puffs.
The Elite Hotel (in Fort Kochi) and its bakery are famous for their pastriesm, mutton puffs and mince pies.
The Cochin Bakery, which made its way into the Limca Book of Records for baking a 216 – foot long 804 – kg cake.
A traditional Kerala meal is incomplete without paal payasam (Kheer or a dessert made from rice or vermicelli, milk coconut and jaggey).
This temple town is also a good place to have the traditional Sadya, a feast served on plantain leaf.
“If you ask me to recommend one good place to eat, I would say – without a compunction or second thought – Zains at Kozhikode.” – Anita Nair.
Sweetmeat street, Kozhikode the name says it all – it’s the paradise for those with a sweet tooth.
A colorful street, with alluring stacks of red, orange, green, white and even black Halwa.
The banana has many avatars in Kerala and it will appear in some form or the other on your snack table.
Pazham pori or deep fried banana fritters, is the chart topper.
Upperi (banana or jackfruit chips) are, perhaps, the best take back gift for a foodie.
For a small bite, try the Malabar Unnaki mashed bananas stuffed with dry fruits and jaggery.
For quenchers, try the Sharjah shake – delightful concoction of bananas, milk, sugar and cardamom. It’s the king of all fruit shakes.
The Koder House in Fort Kochi, the former residence of one of the last Jewish families left here, is where you will get the best Jewish spread in Kerala.
At the helms of affairs is Queenie Hallegua, the Koder daughter, whose recipes will bowl you over.
The piece – de – resistance is the fish ball curry, which is best eaten with Pulao.
Do not expect prawns or crabs on the platter, as the Jews abstain from eating shellfish.
If the layers of Chocolate look too sinful, go for Queenie’s fruit salad, a light and summery desert of tropical fruits.
So, head for Koder House, an imposing Portuguese mansion that is now a heritage hotel. 
There are chicken breasts deep fried in egg batter.
Hyderabad, with its variety of mouthwatering food, is the gourmand’s dream destinations. The Ohri group of hotels certainly offers one of the best culinary experiences you can find in Charminar City.
Ohri’s cuisine court, located in Basheerbagh, is not just a place where you pamper your taste buds.
The Ohri’s cuisine court has been conferred the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Award of Excellence, H&FS Award and ACP best restaurant award.
Dine on authentic Indian and Mughlai specialties and sip on classy cocktails.
Havmor is dessert ecstasy, where you find all the varieties of ice-creams, milk shakes and fast food you can think of.
Mings court, with its excellent Chinese spread, is a true reminder of the Ming dynasty.
The revolving bar is a big draw as well as the private dining rooms, perfect for the small parties.
Gufaa offers yet another authentic experience, serving the best Peshawari and North Indian cuisine in town.
There are Kathakali Masks, coir craft and brass work, rich spices for your kitchen as well as oil for the Spa experience at home, in the markets of Kerala.
Aranmula mirror from aranmula are special because the reflective surface is made from a molten metal alloy, which is first poured into clay moulds and then polished for days using local clay and oil.
The mirror has religious associations, as legend has it that the craft was divinely inspired in the artisans of the Aranmula Parthasarathy temple.
The prices are quite steep, with a small mirror priced at nothing less than Rs. 1,000.
Just 10 kms away from Kozhikode, Beypore once held a great importance as a port and ship building centre.
Today, however, you can get miniatures of the large vessels that made Beypore famous.
Only three families in Beypore makes the small models of vessels and their outlets are in the small markets.
Uru: a miniature of large vessels once made here is available in bottles in Kozhikode.
Your best buy option in Kozhikode is Kairali on Jail Road, and Surabhi, Aradhana Tourist Home buildings, Kallai Road.
The  uru will cost R. 500.
Thiruvananthapuram’s Sreemoolam         Shashthiyathapoorthi Memorial (SMSM) institute brings Kerala Under a roof.
History has it that SMSM institute was a gift from the king of Sreemoolam to the Government of Kerala.
Kathakali Masks, coir craft, elephant and boat race miniatures, sandalwood oil – you name it, they have it.
Indian Arts and Curios: just by the virtue of the 18th century Dutch building it inhabits – with red tiles and wooden floors – this antique shop looks the part. 
Old Christian artifacts, figurines, door panels, Dutch ceramics, porcelain jars, cash and jewelery boxes – there is something for every one at Indian Arts and Curios.
The doors of the legendary shop swung open in Kochi’s Jew Town when the owners of the 250 – year – old left town.
The Kerala cotton sari, in all its elegance and simplicity, belongs to a different level altogether. 
Shopping in Kerala is incomplete without the nine yards with gold (Kasavu) borders.
For a unique shopping experience, walk into a Karalkada outlets. It’s a household name in Kerala for the best Kasavu saris.
For a wider collection of traditional saris in silk, go to Jayalakshmi Silk on MG Road, Kochi, a good option for wedding saris.
Gold with a tingle of red – Kerala’s traditional Jewellary comes in a range of intricate designs.
The cream – and – gold saris and dhotis in fine cotton are unique to Kerala.
The Kairali showrooms have an amazing collection of handicrafts, especially in wood and jute.
For the traditional look, go for the Odiyanam (belt) and Kashumala (long chain with coins).
You will find at least 50 more shops within a two – km radius around MO Road and Town Hall Road.
Kottakkal Arya Vaidyasala; a 104-year-old institute has a postal stamp in its honour.
A visit to this shop - cum – treatment centre in Malappuram district will make you to say goodbye to allopathy. 
One of the oldest in the business, the Arya Vaidyasala has a cure for all your body complaints.
The medicines are made painstakingly by the staff with herbs from the Vaidyasala’s own garden.
The picture – perfect Jew Town in Kochi Houses the only Spice excahnge in the world – the India Peppeer and spice trade association (IPSTA).
A mild fragrance wafts across the lanes with shops of all sizes enticing buyers with their with their amazing spread.
Cardamom, cinnamom, black Pepper, nutmeg, fenugreek ... the list is endless and you will get them at wholesale price.