The futuristic Park is built to exacting international standards, supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure.
Amidst a refreshing and aesthetically appealing environment, the park offers a one-stop solution integrating office, production, commercial, residential and recreational needs in a single location.
The International Tech Park is meticulously designed and built to suit the requirements of international hi-tech companies in the field of information technology, software development, electronics, telecommunication, research and development, financial services and other non-polluting hi-tech industries.
Electronics City is an industrial park spread over 330 acres exclusively meant for electronics industries.
All the major Indian festivals are celebrated in Banagalore with pomp and gaiety.
With the mix of people in Bangalore, it is common to see Christmas and Ramzan celebrated with equal vigour.
The new year is celebrated more enthusiastically in Bangalore than any other festival.
Listed among some of India’s more offbeat festivals, the Karaga Festival is one that tests an individual’s sense of balance-both that of the body and of the mind.
The sight of people trying to balance a series of pots on their heads and doing so with consummate ease is quite a sight.
Bangalore is well connected with almost every major South Indian city.
Bangalore is extremely well connected by air with major cities in India and is served by Indian Airlines, Jet airways and Sahara Airlines with frequent flights.
Bangalore is now an International Airport as well and is currently served by Lufthansa, Malaysian Airlines, Indian Airlines, Air India and a few other International Airlines.
Bangalore is well connected to Delhi, Mumba। Chennai, Hyderabad and to almost all other cities in Southern India by a network of Super fast trains.
Mysore is a major craft centre with numerous shops selling an incredible range of ivory, sandalwood, rosewood and teak carvings and furniture.
Until independence, the city was the seat of the Maharajas of Mysore, a princely state covering most of Karnataka.
The 10 day Dussehra festival is one of the major attractions, culminating in the long procession of caparisoned elephants, liveried retainers, and cavalry.
Mysore was the political capital of the Wodeyar dynasty which ruled the state of Karnataka for some 150 years till the independence of the country from the British.
These kings were great patrons of art and culture and Mysore was the cultural capital of the south under the rule of the Wodeyars.
Chamundi Hills is 1150m hill that is named after Goddess Durga, the consort of Lord Shiva, who vanquished the Demon Mahishasura.
From the top of the Chanmundi Hill one can have a panoramic view of Mysore.
Built enormous and lavish in 1911 to replace the old palace in the fort that burned down, the Maharaja’s Palace is an extravagance of domes, arches, turrets and sculptures.
Maharaja’s Palace is a fine example of Indo-Saracenic style of architecture.
With vast pillared corridors and stately halls, carved ceilings, intricate mosaics, carving in ivory, stone and wood, life like paintings, antique royal weapons, Maharaja’s Place is a must in every visitor’s itinerary.
Built in the 12th century, a fine example of Dravidian temple architecture, Krishnaraja Wodeyar renovated the Chamundeswari Temple in 1827.
The Chamundeswari Temple’s tower is 40m high with seven storeys.
On the way to the Chamundeswari temple, there is a monolithic statue of Nandi Bull and a mortar statue of Mahishasura.
Srigangapatnam, island fortress of Hyder Ali and his son Tipu Sultan is picturesquely located in the River Cauvery.
Within the fort walls that still carry the poignant scars of Tipu’s last stand against the British, are a mosque and the Ranganathaswamy Temple.
The ‘Daria Daulat’, Tipu’s summer palace with a beautifully gilded and painted interior and the majestic ‘Gumbaz’ his mausoleum, are located close to the river.
The splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the Krishnarajasagar Dam are a must see for visitors, Its fine terraced lawns and swirling fountains are illuminated over the weekend to give it a fairy tale quality.
St. Philomena Church, this beautiful Cathedral was built in 1956 and is one of the largest churches in the country.
St. Philomena Church has been built in the Gothic style with beautiful stain glass windows and lofty towers.
The illuminated St. Philomena Church in the evening is a wonderful site not to be missed.
The star shaped temple at Somnathpur is a splendid example of Hoysla architecture.
Temple at Somnathpur is embellished with a profusion of finely sculpted friezes and panels.
Temple at Somnathpur is well preserved and not to be missed.
Bandipur Tiger Reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back.
Nagarhole National Park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of Mysore.
Nagarhole National Park’s dense deciduous forests are the habitat of the tiger, leopard, gaur, elephant, sambar, Chital or the spotted deer, wild boar, pangolin, langur, macaques and about 250 species of birds, including the magnificent Malabar Pied Hornbill and the Great Black Woodpecker. 
There are excellent facilities for visitors to stay at the Kabini River Lodge and for viewing wildlife.
Mysore Celebrates Regional, National and Religious Festivals with pomp like any Other Part of the Country.
Mysore is synonymous with Dasara celebrations.
Several religious, cultural and other programmes mark the 10-day-long celebrations, which fall generally in the months of September-October, depending on the auspicious days of the Hindu calendar.
Tourists from India and abroad come to Mysore to see the various tourist attractions and witness the special programmes arranged during the 10-day festival and in particular the last day’s Dasara procession.
On all the ten days, the Mysore Palace is illuminated and renowned musicians of the State and outside give performances in front of the Palace.
The Mysore Palace is also thrown open to the visitors and the royal throne is displayed.
During the nine days, the State Government arranges music, dance, folk dance, doll shows, wrestling and sports competitions.
The Kannadiga new year day of Yugadi that falls on the second half of March or early April is celebrated with devotion and delight.
Mysore also celebrates the national festivals of Independence Day, the republic day and the birthday of Gandhiji.
Religious festivals like Makara Samkramana, Sri Ramanavami, Janmasthtami, Ganesh Chaturthi, Deepavali, Christmas, Eid-ul-Fitr, Eid-ul-Adha etc. are celebrated in harmony.
Mysore is located 139 kms. To the south west of Bangalore.
The state highway that connects the two cities could provide a pleasant ride through rustic country side.
A bus or car ride from Bangalore would take approximately 3 hours for Mysore.
Mysore is again connected with many trains to Bangalore and also the prestigious luxury train, Shatabdi Express connects it to Madras.
Ooty also known as Udagamandalam is the “Queen of hill stations” and the capital of Nilgiris district.
Ooty is one of the most popular tourist resorts in India 
Ooty is a land of picturesque picnic spots.
Ooty is used to be popular summer and weekend getaway for the Britishers during the colonial days.
Ooty is situated at an altitude of 2,240 meters above sea level.
An added attraction for the tourists to Udagamandalam is the mountain train journey on a ratchet and pinion track which commences from Kallar, near Mettupalayam and wends its way through many hair-raising curves and fearful tunnels and chugs along beside deep ravines full of verdant vegetation, gurgling streams and tea gardens.
Ooty still woos people from all over India as well as foreign countries right through summer, and sometimes in the winter months too.
Ooty, this beautiful botanical paradise was first brought to the public eye by John Sullivan, Collector of Coimbatore district in 1819.
Rose Garden situated in the heart of Ooty town, this garden has been beautifully laid out in terraces with rose tunnels, pergolas and bowers with rose.
Rose garden was set up in the year 1995 to commemorate the 100th  flower show of the Botanical garden.
Today, this Rose garden has the largest collection of roses in the country.
Hybrid Tea Roses, miniature roses, Floribunda, Ramblers, roses of unusual colors like black and green are some of the more than 2,000 varieties of roses that will captivate your senses.
The Ooty Lake, this artificial lake was constructed by John Sullivan, the first collector of Ooty.
Originally intended to be an irrigation tank Ooty Lake was dredged out during the years, 1823-1825.
Ooty Lake is a very popular tourist spot in Ooty.
You can go boating between 8 A.M. and 6 P.M. on all days in Ooty Lake.
A wide range of boats are available at the Boat House to suit varied tastes and budgets.
A Mini Garden with an amusement part for children and a toy train are added attractions at Ooty Lake.
Botanical Garden was laid out in 1847 by the Marquis of Tweedale and is spread over 55 acres.
Lush green well maintained lawns, rare tree species, a 20 million year old fossilized tree, an Italian-style garden bordering a clear pool, a vast variety of flowering bushes and plants in myriad hues, fern house with a vast range of ferns and orchids, are some of the many highlights of this garden
A flower show along with an exhibition of rare plant species is held every year in the month of May at Botanical Garden.
The Botanical Garden is maintained by the Horticulture Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu and has a very wide variety of plants that include different types of roses, imported shrubs, rare flowering plants etc.
The “Summer Festivals” is held each year during the month of May in the Botanical Garden and is an added attraction for tourists.
The Flower Show is the pride of the festival
To the east of the Botanical Garden is the Toda mund (hill).
At a height of 2,623 metres, Dodabetta Peak is the highest point in the district.
Situated at about 10 km from the Ooty town, Dodabetta Peak is one of the most prominent view points around Ooty.
The top of the Dodabetta peak remains covered by mist most of the time but on a clear day, you can have a look at the landscape as far as the plains of Coimbatore and the Mysore plateau.
Also for the nature lover are the sprawling 20,000 acres of Wenlock Downs which was once the scene of the famous Udhagamandalam Hunt.
Wenlock Downs is a region of extensive grasslands with shoals or gallery forests of eucalyptus.
The Gymkhana Club, the factory of the Hindustan Photo Films Company, the Government Sheep Farm and the Folg Course are all in Wenlock Downs.
Wenlock Downs is about 8km. from Ooty on the Gudalur Road.
Pykara Falls is situated about 21 kms on the Ooty Mysore Road, Pykara boasts of well protected fenced Sholas, Toda settlements, undistributed grassy meadows and also a good wildlife habitat.
The Pykara Dam, Pykara falls and the reservoir attracts many tourists.
A visit to the dam is a must for the breathtaking scenery that it has to offer.
Avalanche is located at a distance of 28 kms from Ooty.
A beautiful lake surrounded by a thick shoal where even sunlight cannot penetrate and abundant with a wide variety of avifauna is a nature Lover’s Paradise.
The Avalanche valley is a nice place for splendid walks and fishing and it is around 24km. from Ooty town.
Upper Bhavani is about 10 kms. From Korakundah and about 20 kms. From Avalanche.
Upper Bhavani is a Naturalist’s Paradise.
Kotagiri is 31 kms. From Udhagamandalam and the climate of Kotagiri is very salubrious which is 6503 feet above sea level.
Kotagiri is shielded by the Doddabetta ranges which receive much of its rain from north west monsoon.
One can enjoy a pleasure ride on road flanked by green tea beds on either side.
A pretty hill town, Coonoor is located amidst tea gardens.
The Sims Park, established here in 1874, has fine lawns and a collection of rare plants and trees picturesquely located along a steep slope.
Scenic waterfalls – Law’s Falls and St. Catherine Falls and fine vantage points with breathtaking views and amusing names like Lamb’s Rock, Dolphin’s Nose and Lady Canning’s Seat dre popular picnic spots.