The state of Karnataka, formerly known as Mysore, is a state of strong contrasts, with the modern industrialized city of Bangalore at one extreme and expanses of rural farming areas at the other.
Karnataka also has some of the most interesting historic architecture in India.
In the Garden City you can visit the Lal Bagh with a variety of old trees, fountains, lotus pools, terraces and an assortment of tropical and sub-tropical herbs.
In the Garden City you can visit also the Maharaja's Palace and Government Buildings. 
The sunny, southern coastal town is named after the local goddess Mangladevi.
In Manglooor you may visit the tile, boat making, coffee curing and cashewnut factories, St. Aloysius Chapel with its 100 years old paintings, Shrimati Bai Memorial Museum, Beedi Factory, Jain Temples, Fort, Saib Mosque and Music Gallery. 
The Chenna Kesava temple of Belur built 900 years ago is an exquisite example of Hoysala art.
Halebid's 12th century Hoysaleswara and Kedareswara temples are masterpieces of Hindu art.
In Mysour you can visit the Palace of the Maharaja built in 1911-12.
The Maharaja palace is of harmonious synthesis of the Hindu and saracenic styles of acrhitecture with archways, domes, turrets, colonnades and sculptures which are magnificent.
Visit the art gallery; drive upto Chamundi Hill to see Chamundeshwari Temple and a panoramic view of Mysore. On the way back, see the Nandi Bull.
The island fortress of Haidar Ali and his son Tipu Sultan is picturesquely located in the River Cauvery.
Brindavan Gardens is the splendidly planned ornamental gardens at the Krishnarajasagar Dam are a must see for visitors.
A vast stretch of land on the banks of river Cauvery on the Bangalore/Mysore highway, it consists of islets in the Cauvery river which are full of thousands of species of birds including herons, Open-billed stork, white ibis, little egret, cattle egret, darter, spoonbill cormorant, pond heron, river tern and many more and also crocodiles.
Bandipur Tiger Reserve, thisTiger reserve has open forests and facilities for viewing wildlife from elephant back. 
Nagarhole National Park is a fine wildlife reserve that is within easy reach of My sore.
Bangalore is directly connected by rail with Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Calcutta, Cochin, Delhi, Guwahati, Howarah, Hyderabad, Mangalore, Chennai, Mysore, Nagpur, Tiruvananthapuram, Vasco-da-Gama (Goa) and other cities in India.
Regular bus service connect Bangalore to Belgaum, Bihar, Bijapur, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Goa, Hospet, Hyderabad, Chennai, Madikere, Madurai, Mangalore, Mysore, Tirupati, Nandi Hills, Chanrajaragar, Jog Falls, Ootacamund (Ooty), Raichur, Ernakulam, Gulbarga, Pondicherry, Calicut, Dharwar etc.
Bangalore is one of Asia's fastest growing cities.
Bangalore is situated at an altitude of 920 metres above sea level.
Bangalore is the principal administrative, cultural, commercial and industrial centre of the state of Karnataka.
Spread over an area of 2190 square kilometers, Bangalore enjoys a pleasant and equable climate throughout the year.
Tree-lined streets and abundant greenery made Bangalore the 'Garden City' of India.
However, since local entrepreneurs and technology giant Texas Instruments discovered Bangalore potential as a high-tech city in the early 1980's.
Bangalore has seen a major technology boom and is now home to more than 250 high-tech companies, including homegrown giants like Wipro and Infosys.
The erstwhile garden city has now been pegged the 'Silicon Valley' of India.
Bangalore was founded by Kempe Gowda in the early 16th century.
After 16thcenturies later, Bangalore became an important fortress city under rulers Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan.
The ruins of those periods can still be seen on the Bellary Road, at Lal Bagh, Ulsoor and Gavi Gangadhareswar Temple.
The people in the Bangalore city are warm, hospitable and friendly.
Bangalore is generally regarded as a place that most visitors like to chill out in.
Along with the modern day pubs, discos and hangouts, one can still see remnants of the older Bangalore.
All in all, Bangalore is a lovely city to visit.
One of Bangalore's most attractive features continues to be its pleasant weather.
Bangalore meets the season's expectations, which means, it is warm in the summer, chilly in winter and the monsoons visit regularly.
March to May (warmest months), December to January (coldest months), June to September (rainy - southwest monsoon), November to December (rainy - northeast monsoon) are the best times to visit the Bangalore.
Vidhana Soudha is located at the northern boundary of Cubbon Park, this majestic building, with a total plinth area of over 5, 00,000 sq. ft is built in a Neo-Dravidian style.
The gleaming white domes, pillars and archways resemble the architectural pattern of Mysore's old palaces.
The huge, carved doors of the cabinet room are made of pure sandalwood.
The entire building, when floodlight on Sunday evenings, presents a truly breathtaking picture.
Lal  Bagh , these 240-acre gardens were laid out during the Muslim era (18th century) by Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, 200 years ago.
Lal Bag contains the largest collection of rare tropical and sub-tropical plants with many awesome century-old trees.
Fountains, terraces, lotus pools, rose gardens and a deer park surround the magnificent glass house built in 1840, on the lines of London's Crystal Palace.
The Annual flower, fruit and vegetable shows are regularly held here.
Lal Bagh also houses the offices of the Karnataka Horticultural Society that renders free advice to those interested in flowers and gardens.
A giant Electronic Quartz Flower clock is also in the garden of All Bag.
Cubbon Park planned and laid out in 1864, this beautiful 300-acre park contains the public library and the museum.
The illuminated "fairy fountain" and the elegant graeco - colonial style buildings add to the beauty of Cubbon park.
The imposing red Gothic structure within this park is Seshadri Iyer Memorial Hall, which houses the public library.
Also situated here are the High Court, the Government Museum, the Technology Museum, the Govt. Aquarium and the Jawaharlal Bal Bhavan.
Situated opposite the City Market, the Fort is noted for its beautifully carved Islamic-style arches on the gate walls, and for the well-preserved Ganesha Temple within its precincts.
One of the temple's outer walls carries an exquisite carving of Sri Krishna playing his flute, and within, there is a fine statue of Lord Ganesha.
Originally built in mud by Kempe Gowda in 1537, the Fort was extended and fortified by Tipu Sultan.
Tipu Sultan preserved the Ganesha Temple as a testament to his religious tolerance.
Fort is open to the public from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Tipu's Palace is situated near the fort; construction of this palace was begun by Tipu Sultan's father Haider Ali, and completed by Tipu himself in 1791.
Tipu's Palace resembles the Daria Daulat Palace at Srirangapatna, Tipu's capital.
Tipu's Palace was known as `Rashk-e-jannat' - the Envy of Heaven.
Constructed largely of wood, Tipu's Palace is known for its five elaborately decorated arches surmounted by exquisite minarets, and paintings on the walls and ceilings.
Bangalore has some beautiful temples.
Adjoining Tipu's summer palace is the Venkataramanaswamy Temple, a 300-year old temple built by the Wodeyars and still in very good condition.
South of Bangalore in Basavangudi, is the Bull Temple built by Kempe Gowda.
The deity is a massive 15-foot Basava or bull, which was believed to have been the vehicle of Lord Shiva.
The cause for wonder about this Nandi is that it has been carved from a single boulder.
Another impressive temple is the Gavi Gangadhareswara temple, an unusual cave temple.
Gangadhareswara temple has been designed in such a manner that, on the festival of Sankranti, a local festival, the rays of the sun pass between the horns of the Nandi placed outside the temple, illuminating the image of Lord Shiva.
Another temple dedicated to Lord Shiva is the Someshwara Temple built by Kempe Gowda in Ulsoor.
35 kms from Bangalore at Hesaraghatta is the famous Nritya Gram, a centre for dance that imparts extensive training in seven dance disciplines and two martial art forms to residential students.
The Nrityagram celebrates the Vasantha Habba (the spring) every year.
Renowned artists are invited to come and perform in a night-long gala, open to the public.
The Hesaraghatta Lake, a man-made lake, near the village is also a popular tourist spot.
Just 21 kms from the city and easily accessible by road is the Bannerghatta National Park.
A part of the Bannerghatta forest, the park houses a mini zoo, a crocodile farm, and lion and tiger safari parks.
Situated 60 kms from Bangalore, at a height of 1478m above sea level, is the Nandi Hills resort.
What used to be the favorite summer getaway of Tipu Sultan is now a popular picnic spot with its awesome fort, sprawling lawns and two ancient temples.
The Shri Satya Sai Baba ashram is the chief attraction at Whitefield.
Shri Satya Sai Baba ashram is now more or less a suburb of Bangalore, with increased access lines and more people moving into the neighborhood.
The ashram is called Brindavan and any public transportation will take you there, though auto rickshaws may make a bit of noise about the extra charge you ought to pay.
Brindavan is an interesting place, and the sage has quite a few interesting aspects to his personalities.
Nandi Hills is a hill resort near Bangalore whose solitude has not been tampered by commercialization.
The weather is very pleasant and though a far cry from the misty Himalayan hill-stations, Nandi Hills has a very pleasant ambience about it a nice place to chill out in if you are in the vicinity.
For one, it has been a popular hill retreat right from the days of Tipu Sultan who is said to have visited here occasionally.
Tipu's drop, a 600-metre high cliff offers a fantastic view of the plains down below.
A little away from the city is Ramohalli, a picturesque picnic spot, that boasts of a 400-year old sprawling banyan tree, spread over 4 acres.
The region around Bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations, the two notable ones being Shivaganga (4599 ft. high) and Savandurga.
The region around Bangalore is dotted with gigantic rock formations, the two notable ones being Shivaganga (4599 ft. high) and Savandurga.
Mysore is just 139 kms by road from Bangalore.
Mysore was the capital city of Hyder Ali, Tipu Sultan and the entire Wodeyar clan.
Mysore's prime attractions are the Mysore Palace, the Chamundi Hills, the famous Brindavan Gardens, the Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery located in the Jaganmohan Palace, the Mysore Zoo and St. Philomena's Church.
15 kms from Mysore is the old capital of Tipu Sultan, Srirangapatna.
Srirangapatna’s fort bears witness to the Tiger of Mysore's last battle against the British.
Srirangapatna’s mausoleum, the Gumbaz, which sports ivory inlaid doors and the famous tiger-striped emblem, is also nearby.
Near Srirangapatna is the Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary.
40 kms away from Mysore is the Somnathpur Temple, a star-shaped structure built in 1260 A.D, an outstanding example of Hoysala architecture.
49 kms from Bangalore city, Ramanagaram is famous for its rock formations, a great attraction for rock climbers.
Ramanagaram is also an important silk cocoon market.
Shivaganga is 50 kms from the city center is a hill which provides a breath-taking view of the the nearby areas.
194 kms from Bangalore is Hassan, from where one can go to Belur, Halebid and Shravanabelagola.
Shravanabelagola is a famous Jain pilgrimage with a 17m high monolith of lord Bahubali standing tall.
For those that have business and more business on their minds, the International Tech Park in Bangalore offers a superb business advantage to corporations seeking a foothold in India, one of the world's biggest emerging markets.