The bridge was more than just a river crossing though.
It had its own chapel and many shops and houses too.
The third one was designed by John Rennie and built in 1832 by his son, after his death.
It was painstakingly dismantled and then reconstructed in the Arizona Desert where it still stands, and carries six lanes of traffic.
 William McGonagall (1825-1902) found the bridge extremely busy when he visited London and wrote his awful poem 'Jottings of London'.
The bridge also inspired the famous nursery rhyme 'London Bridge is falling down'!  The current rather dull looking bridge was completed in 1972.
In the 2nd century, London (then called Londinium) was controlled by the Roman invaders, and a wall was built to protect it.
 Today sections of this city wall are still visible, mingling among the office blocks.
Cross sections of parts of the wall show where medieval Londoners continued to maintain and add to the wall.
 Areas of London still bear the names of the gates in the wall, the main ones being Aldgate, Cripplegate, Bishopsgate, Newgate and Ludgate.
 Large sections of the wall can be seen close to the Museum of London and near Tower Hill station next to the Tower of London.
A sign posted walk runs along the path of the wall between these two locations.
The Mall is the grand road that leads from Trafalgar Square, through Admiralty Arch, and on to Buckingham Palace.
 A wide and straight road, it is at its best when being used for royal ceremonies, when Union Jacks or the national flags of visiting heads of state are flown from flagpoles, along the length of the road.
 The Mall as we see it today was designed at the beginning of this century by the architect Aston Webb, who also designed the Victoria Monument and rebuilt the front of Buckingham Palace around the same time.
 The Mall cuts through the middle of royal London.
On one side is St James's Park, leading to The Horse Guard's Parade Ground.
On the other side is Green Park and past royal residences, Lancaster House, Marlborough House, Spencer House and St James's Palace.
Also on that side is Clarence House, the home of the Queen Mother, a sort of royal granny flat.
Opposite the Bank of England, it is the official home of the Lord Mayor of London.
There is an underground station nearby, named after the house, although it is actually nearer to Bank station.
Unfortunately the building is not open to the public.
If it were, you could see the cells where prisoners were held awaiting trial in the Mansion House Magistrates Court.
Victorian women's rights campaigner, Mrs. Pankhurst was one of those once held in the cells.
Sir Christopher Wren designed this house, which overlooks St James's Park, in the early 18th century, as the London home of the Duke of Marlborough and his wife, Sarah.
Since then it has been home for many members of the royal family, including Edward VII and Alexandria, when they were Prince and Princess of Wales.
The lavish entertainment of their friends, 'The Marlborough House Set' was legendary.
Queen Mary lived here as a widow and her son, Edward VIII told her of this intention to abdicate in this house.
It has also been used as a meeting place for members of the Commonwealth of Nations since 1962 and is, alas, not open to the public.
The Nat West Tower was previously the head office of a British bank and is now The International Financial Centre.
It is not open to the public and so is of little interest apart from dominating the city's skyline.
It does, however, have one claim to fame n at 600 feet it is the second tallest building in Britain, after the much prettier Canary Wharf Tower in Docklands.
Also, in the early part of 1996, the building caught fire and almost became a towering inferno.
Following a major rebuild of the interior, the building reopened in 1997 renamed The International Financial Centre.
 Large bags, cameras, phones, radios and cassette recorders cannot be brought into the court and unfortunately there are no facilities to leave them outside.
The proper name for these courtrooms is the Central Criminal Court, but they are more commonly known as the Old Bailey, as is the street in which they stand, after the medieval defenses that were once on the site.
The Old Bailey was built in the early 1900's on the site of the old Newgate Prison.
Court number one is the most interesting, with its original furniture and dock leading to the detaining cells below.
This court is generally used for the most serious of cases.
In the past many notorious murderers have been tried in that court, including Dr Crippen, the Victorian wife-killer who was the first man to be caught by use of a radio signal, when he tried to flee London for his home in America.
Each court contains a public gallery open to anyone (aged 14 or over), interested in watching justice in action, and it is well worth a visit.
Following a terrorist bomb in the 1980's strict rules on baggage have been implemented.
Photography is also strictly forbidden and cameras cannot even be taken inside.
This rule also applies to phones, radios and cassette recorders, and unfortunately there are no facilities for leaving such items outside the court.
Opposite the Old Bailey is the Church of the Holy Sepulcher.
Look out for the drinking fountain set in the church wall, it was the first metropolitan public drinking fountain and was originally erected on Holborn Hill in 1859.
It was moved to its present position in 1867 when the Holborn Viaduct was built.
Marble Arch was marooned in the middle of this roundabout in the mid 19th century.
Originally John Nash built it as a gateway for Buckingham Palace, but the great architect got it wrong and made it too small for the royal coaches.
So it was moved to its present site and now stands surrounded by a chaotic mass of traffic. 
It is only accessible through a confusing rabbit warren of smelly underground tunnels, or by dicing with death crossing the road.
The subways below Marble Arch are also a favorite pitch for beggars.
The area covering Regent's Park was formerly a church property called Manor of Tyburn. 
This park was created in 1812 for the Prince Regent, and the original plan was to create a private development with exclusive houses, but the full scheme was never completed.
Instead we have been left a beautifully landscaped park designed by John Nash, with features including a boating lake, rock gardens, sunken gardens and rose gardens. 
There is a bandstand, where bands play throughout the summer months.
Regents park London-England also, during the summer the open-air theatre produces a variety of plays. 
Situated in the middle of the park, the open-air theatre’s unique atmosphere makes it a marvelous place to see a play. 
It specializes in Shakespeare’s works, although other plays and musicals are also performed during the summer.
A word of warning though - the English weather is unpredictable and performances are only cancelled when it’s extremely bad - so bring a raincoat and a brolly!
The small park, next to the Victoria Tower end of The Houses of Parliament, offers a peaceful change from the bustling crowds outside Parliament, and even noisier rabble within.
The park contains a bronze sculpture made by Rodin in 1895 of The Burghers of Calais (the residents of Calais in France who surrendered to Edward III in 1347, during the Hundred Year’s War between Britain and France).
There is also a statue of Emmeline Pankhurst (1858-1928), the British suffragette, whose efforts finally won women the right to vote.
Looking across the river from here you can see Lambeth Palace and The Museum of Garden History.
Television companies often use both this park and the grass area across the road near the Jewel Tower, where they interview politicians. 
The grassy area is known variously as College Green, Abingdon Green and St Stephens Green. 
The London Dungeon - Deep in the heart of London, buried beneath the paving stones of historic Southward, lies the world's most chillingly famous horror attraction.
The London Dungeon brings more than 2,000 years of gruesomely authentic history vividly back to life and death.
As you delve into the darkest chapters of our grim and bloody past, recreated in all its dreadful detail, remember: everything you experience really happened.
A warning - in the Dungeon's dark catacombs it always pays to keep your wits about you. Some of the 'exhibits' have an unnerving habit of coming back to life.
Today, the London Eye has become, quite literally, the way the world sees London.
It is one of the most spectacular and popular attractions in the world, drawing visitors from far and wide.
Its success is unquestionable, as is its popularity with tourists and Londoners alike.
Yet it was conceived, designed and built against considerable odds.
Of all the remarkable facts about the London Eye, perhaps the most astonishing is that it was ever built at all.
It is one of London's few attractions that enjoy a significant portion of repeat business, say no more.
The London Eye River Cruise Experience departs conveniently from the London Eye pier located next to the London Eye itself.
Highlights of the 40 minute circular cruise include St Paul's Cathedral, the Houses of Parliament, Tower of London, and HMS Belfast, Shakespeare's Globe, Tate Modern and the Millennium bridge.
Includes live commentary and a souvenir guide map (map in seven languages).
Suitable in all weather as the boat has both covered and sun deck seating.
Both decks are accessible for wheel chair users.
Foreign language audio commentary is available in French, Spanish, German, Dutch, Italian, Russian and Japanese.
The boats leave hourly from 11:45am, the last Cruise sets off at 6:45pm (October to March -4.45pm)porters restaurant English food Porters English Restaurant, less than 10 minutes walk from the London Eye  in the heart of Covent Garden's theatre land is famous for serving excellent homemade real English food.
Covent Garden Grill (as the name suggests) is in London's Covent Garden and less than 10 minutes stroll from the London Eye.
Intimate yet bright, the grill is popular with both locals and tourists without ever becoming oppressively packed.
The ground floor is divided up into sumptuous leather upholstered booths, whilst downstairs the ambience is slightly calmer with plenty of room and a feeling of exclusivity.
Apart from the extremely tempting menu choices there is an excellent wine list (sensibly priced) obviously selected by someone with knowledge?
The list of beers and lagers is equally interesting; there are about two dozen to choose from.
This is the famous waxworks started by Madame Tussaud in 1835 and is now one of the most popular tourist attractions in London with over two million visitors a year.
There are wax models of the famous and infamous from every walk of life.
So whether you want to mingle with kings and queens or the latest pop stars, this is the place to go.
New models are being produced all the time while have-been are quietly removed from display and put into storage.
Over the years hundreds of celebrities have made their way to Madame Tussaud's 'stage door' to be received in the private studio where the sculptor makes precise measurements and photographs the subject's head from every possible angle.
Another highlight is 'The Spirit of London' - exhibition which covers a period of more than 400 years and spans London's history from Elizabethan times to the present day, capturing the essence of London's pomp and circumstance.
Sights, sounds and even smells combine to tell the colorful story of Britain's capital city to visitors traveling in cars specially designed to resemble London taxicabs but thankfully, without the drivers! Indeed, the cars were actually made by the same company who build real London taxis! Over 70 figures are involved in 'The Spirit of London' many of which are animated and fused with a host of special effects.
Before Madame Tussaud had established herself in London, her collection of wax figures toured all around the country in wagons and caravans.
Her macabre collection of relics from the French Revolution, alongside portraits of torturers, villains and murderers, proved irresistible to the visiting public.
To protect society ladies of a delicate temperament, the collection of unsavory characters was kept distinct from the rest of the exhibition in an area known as 'The Separate Room'.
In 1846 the satirical magazine, Punch, coined the term 'Chamber of Horrors'.
Adjoining Madame Tussaud's is the London Planetarium.