Potala Palace is famous for its grand buildings, complicated constructions, devotional atmosphere and splendid artworks.
Potala Palace is mainly comprised by the White Palace (administerial building) and the Red Palace (religious building).
Upon entering the East Portal, visitors will come into the Deyang Shar courtyard where Dalai Lamas watched Tibetan opera.
West of the courtyard is the White Palace of the Potala Place of Lhasa.
As the winter palace of Dalai Lamas, the White Palace is a seven-floor building originally built in 1645.
The wall of the palace was painted to white to convey peace and quiet.
The Great East Hall on the fourth floor is the largest hall in White Palace, occupying a space of 717 sq meters (about 7,718 sq ft).
The Great East Hall was also the site for holding momentous religious and political events.
The living quarters and offices of regents are on the fifth and sixth floors and while the top floor consists of the East Chamber of Sunshine and the West Chamber of Sunshine.
The sunshine in the chambers all year round, the East and West Chamber were the places where Dalai Lamas lived, worked and studied.
The furnishings are sumptuousness and comfortable, revealing the dignity of Dalai Lamas.
Standing on the spacious balcony, visitors can look down on beautiful Lhasa.
In the middle of the Potala Palace the Red Palace exists, built in 1690 after the death of the Fifth Dailai Lama, the wall of the palace was painted to red, representing stateliness and power.
The Red Palace is renowned for its religious status, gorgeous stupas and precious culture relics.
The Great West Hall in the middle is the largest hall of Potala Palace with an area of 725 sq meters (about 7,804 sq ft).
Beautiful murals painted on inner walls described the glory and power of the Fifth Dalai Lama, and the corridor upstairs is also painted by many religious murals such as the figures of Buddhas, Bodhisattvas and Dalai Lamas; the genetic stories of Buddhism; the historical events such as marrying Princess Wencheng and building Jokhang Temple.
One of the most famous murals described the Fifth Dalai Lama's visit to Emperor Shunzhi in Beijing in1652.
The North Chapel is dedicated to Sakyamuni, Dalai Lamas, Buddhas of Three Generations and Medicine Buddha.
The stupa-tombs of the Eighth, Ninth and Eleventh Dalai Lama are also situated here. Besides, Visitors can also find a volume of Kanjur (Beijing Edition) donated by Emperor Yongzheng on the bookshelf.
The East Chapel is consecrate to Tsong Khapa, founder of the Yellow Hat Sect. His two-meter-high (6.56 ft) figure is surrounded by other 70 statues of famous lamas.
The South Chapel is dedicated to Padmasambhava, a famous Indian monk who introduced Esoteric Buddhism to Tibet in eighth century.
To the west of the Great West Hall is the Stupa Chapel where the stupa-tombs of the Fifth, the Tenth and the Twelfth Dalai Lamas are situated in.
With a height of 14.85 meters (about 48.72 ft), covered by more than 3,000 kilograms (about 6,613pounds) gold foil and decorated with thousands of pearls, gems, corals, ambers and agates, the Fifth Dalai Lama's stupa-tomb is regarded to be the highest and the most luxury one.
The Three-world Hall, which is located on the highest point of Potala Palace, is the holy shrine of Chinese Emperors.
It was built in 1690 and Dalai Lamas used to come here to show their respect to the central government every year.
The prosperity of the Qiao Family originated with Qiao Guifa who was an orphan and made a living as a servant during the reign of Emperor Qianlong (1711 - 1799) in the Qing Dynasty (1644 - 1911).
He first started a business when he met his business partner, Qin. Initially, they sold fodder, bean sprout and bean curd
The 'golden age' for this family was under the instruction of Qiao Zhiyong who adopted the principles of being industrious, modest and generous.
The family fortunes began to decline due to the large amount of money offered to the Qing Army and the spoliation of the Japanese army.
The compound was first built in 1756 in the Qing Dynasty and renovated twice and enlarged once.
When people first saw the compound, they were astonished to find that the complex was so large and magnificent.
Few knew that the value of the compound was less than one percent of the family's (fortune) asset. Situated in the central part of Qiao Town, Qi Xian County in Shanxi Province, it occupies an area of 8,274 square meters (about two acres) with a construction area of 3,870 square meters (about one acre).
It consists of six main courtyards, twenty smaller courtyards and 313 rooms.
The family built the complex like a castle for safety considerations, as well as to create tranquil surroundings in which to relax, away from the furious competition of the business world.
With three sides facing the street, it has ten-meter (about 32 feet) high parapet walls (a kind of wall as high as the house, used to keep the yard safe).
Some girls in large Qiao Family could not resist the temptation of the outside world, so they managed to climb up the high wall to look at the outside world that was forbidden to them.
Gradually, this kind of wall became known as 'Nv'er' (daughter) wall and the exquisite design and meticulous craftsmanship make these walls unrivalled.
The Qiao Compound looks very much like the double Chinese character of 'xi', which means happiness and luck.
As one enters through the main gate, an eighty-meter (about 262 feet) long paved path leads to the main hall, at the western end of which, is the ancestral temple of the family.
The path divides the compound into two parts: the Southern Yard and the Northern Yard.
The Southern Yard is further divided into three sections respectively called the Southeast Yard, the South Yard and the New Yard.
The three subdivisions of the Northern Yard are respectively called the Old Yard, the Northwest Yard and the Study Yard.
Other important feature of the compound is the fact that the roof of every house is connected.
The Qiao Compound gained its renown not only for its large scale but also for the exquisite craftsmanship reflected in the brick carving, woodcarving and murals. ????
Brick carvings can be found on the wall and balusters, depicting various subjects such as flowers (traditional propitious pictures in the culture of Shanxi Province).
The carving on the corbie-step doorstep of the third yard shows Kylin (a mascot in Chinese culture) carrying a son to a mother figure.
The wood carvings are widely praised for they are extremely lifelike and possess some kind of meaning
the caving of the three gods of fortune, prosperity and longevity can be found on the main gate of the second yard.
Beautiful gold murals are located under each eave of the compound. Some of these paintings portray fables and some others concern more prosaic subjects such as flowers, birds, railway lines, railway stations, clocks, etc. Although exposed to the wind and sun for hundreds of years, they are still shining!
There are many tablets in the compound of Qiao Family, two of which are most valuable.
The tablet 'ren zhou yi fu' displays the handwriting of Li Hongzhang (1832-1901, a famous general in Chinese history during the Qing Dynasty).
At the time when the Qing Army was at war with the invaders, the Qiao Family donated 400,000 taels of silver (705,479 ounces) towards a warship. Li wrote this tablet in praise of their patriotism.
The tablet 'fu zhong lang huan' was presented to the Qiao Family under the verbal instruction of the Empress Dowager Cixi(1836-1908) who made her escape after the Eight Powers Allied Army seized Beijing.
When she arrived in Shanxi Province, the Qiao Family donated 400,000 taels of silver (705,479 ounces) to pay for her journey.
In 1985, the local government set up the Folk Art Museum of Qixian County, exhibiting 5,000 objects of folk custom in the compound grounds.
These objects concern folk art, agricultural custom, clothes, foods, shelter and means of travel.
Many films were also shot here, among which the most famous being 'Raise the Red Lanterns' featuring Li Gong. Therefore, information and materials on these films are exhibited, too.
China's vast western region is accessible to travelers along the classic Silk Road, although historically, the trade route was never called such until a German geographer gave it that romantic name in the late 1800s.
In AD 200, this transcontinental route linked the Roman Empire in the west with the imperial court of China. Trade along the route was carried on by foreign traders who belonged to neither of the two old empires.
Before the discovery of the sea route to India, the Silk Road was the most important connection between the East and West.
The Silk Route is an ancient trade route starts in the old capitals of Luoyang and Xian (then called Chang'an), reaches the Yellow River at Lanzhou, then skirts westward along deserts and mountains before dividing into three routes at the oasis of Dunhuang.
The great part of the Silk Road threads its way through Xinjiang. Ancient travelers left behind many historical records and invaluable relics.
Kunming, the capital of Yunnan Province, enjoys great fame among tourists not only because the region features a consistently warm climate, but also thanks ?to its wonderful vistas and landscapes.
Among the most dramatic of these attractions is the Stone Forest (Shilin), known since the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644 A.D.) as the 'First Wonder of the World.'
The Stone Forest is in Lunan Yi Nationality Autonomous County, which is about 120 kilometers (75 miles) from Kunming and requires only a three-hour drive. It covers an area of 400 square kilometers (96,000 acres) and includes both large and small stone forests, as well as many other scenic spots
An old local saying says that 'If you have visited Kunming without seeing the Stone Forest, you have wasted your time.' Truly, the Stone Forest is one of the most important attractions of Yunnan.
Walking through the Stone Forest, visitors marvel at the natural stone masterpieces and are bewitched by the intricate formations. The magnificent, strange and steep landscape creates countless labyrinthine vistas.
Major Stone Forest, Minor Stone Forest and Naigu Stone Forest, all of which feature stones in various formations. Animals, plants, and even human figures can be found here.
Subterranean Stone Forest in Zhiyun Cave, an underground stone forest distributed among several caves and occupying a total area of about three square kilometers (720 acres).
Strange Wind Cave, composed of Penfeng Cave, Hongxi Spring and an underground river. From August to November, gales lasting two to three minutes sweep out of the cave every 30 minutes.
Long Lake is a karsts lake that is three kilometers (two miles) long but only 300 meters (zero point two miles) wide.
The lake features underwater stalagmites and stalactites and a small island in the center of the water.
The source of the Dadie Waterfall, Ba River, is a branch of Nanpan River.
In the rainy season, up to 150 cubic meters (196 cubic yards) of water per square inch plummet down the 88 meter (288 feet) drop.
Geologists say the Stone Forest is a typical example of karsts topography. Approximately 270 million years ago - during the carboniferous period of the Paleozoic era - the region was a vast expanse of sea.
the movements of the lithosphere gradually caused a retreat of the waters and the rise of the limestone landscape, due to constant erosion by the elements, the area finally developed into the present-day Stone Forest.
Many beautiful legends originate in Stone Place, the magical place, passed along by the native people known as Sani, a branch of the Yi ethnic group.
One particular story about the faithful love of Ashima, a beautiful, clever and warm-hearted Sani girl, is the most popular and has been told for thousands of years. The Sani people celebrate their national festival - the Torch Festival - every lunar year on June 24.
They take part in traditional performances such as wrestling, bull fighting, pole-climbing, dragon-playing, and lion-dancing and the A-xi Moon Dance.
During the festival time, the Stone Forest is alive with a particularly joyful, festive atmosphere, making the area even more attractive than usual. However, the Stone Forest - with its sculptures engraved by nature, herself - is always a true miracle for visitors to behold.
Tashilhunpo Monastery is one of the Six Big Monasteries of Gelugpa (or Yellow Hat Sect) in Tibet.
Tashilhunpo Monastery is also called the Heap of Glory, the monastery is located at the foot of Drolmari (Tara's Mountain), Shigatse
Founded by the First Dailai Lama in 1447, the monastery's structure was expanded by the Fourth and successive Panchen Lamas.
Tashilhunpo Monastery covers an area of nearly 300,000 square meters (3,229,279 sq. ft.).
The main structures found in the Tashilhunpo Monastery are The Maitreya Chapel, The Panchen Lama's Palace and The Kelsang Temple.
Tashilhunpo is the seat of the Panchen Lama since the Fourth Panchen Lama took charge in the monastery, and there are now nearly 800 lamas.
Standing on the entrance of Tashilhunpo, visitors can see the grand buildings with golden roofs and white walls. 
The remarkable Thangka Wall which is nine floors high was built by the First Dalai Lama in 1468.
The wall displays the images of Buddha on the 14th, 15th and 16th of May every year following the Tibetan Lunar Calendar.
The images are so humongous that one can easily see it in Shigatse City. Visitors can find The Maitreya Chapel by strolling into the monastery on the west side of Tashilhunpo. One can find the biggest statue of a sitting Maitreya Buddha inside the chapel.
The statue stands 26.2 meters (86 ft) high and is decorated with gold, copper, pearl, amber, coral, diamond and other precious stones.
The statue was handcrafted by 900 craftsmen in 9 years and the chapel has been divided into five floors.
Visitors can tour the upper floors of the chapel using a wooden staircase to see the statue more clearly and appreciate the superb skill of the Tibetans.
The Stupa-tomb of the Tenth Panchen Lama lies east of the chapel, Covered by 614 kg (1,354 pounds) gold, 868 precious stones and 246,794 jewels, the Stupa-tomb built in 1993 is the most splendid and costly mausoleum in China since the 1950s.
Splendid and costly mausoleum in China since the 1950s. The Panchen Lama's Palace which stands nearby the Stupa-tomb is a grand white palace mainly built during the reign of the Six Panchen Lama (1738-1780) and still closed to tourists and visitors.
To the east of the Panchen Lama's Palace lies the Stupa-tomb of the Fourth Panchen Lama who is one of the most famous Lamas in Tibetan history.
Forth Pancham Lama’s gorgeous stupa-tomb decorated with gold and silver was built in 1662.
The Stupa-tomb of the Fourth Panchen Lama is the first stupa-tomb in Tashilhunpo.
The Kelsang Temple is one of the oldest and biggest buildings in Tashilhunpo; it is a colossal compound.
The Main Chanting Hall is a place for lamas to learn the sutras and listen to the Panchen Lama's sermon.