The city thrived commercially and had strong economic ties with their main ally, Ptolemy I Soter of Egypt. 
In 305 BC, the Antigonids of Macedonia who were also rivals of the Ptolemies, besieged Rhodes in an attempt to break the Rhodo-Egyptian alliance. 
When a peace agreement was reached in 304 BC, the Antagonids lifted the siege, leaving a wealth of military equipment behind. 
To celebrate their unity, the Rhodians sold the equipment and used the money to erect an enormous statue of their sun god, Helios. 
The construction of the Colossus took 12 years and was finished in 282 BC. For years, the statue stood at the harbor entrance, until a strong earthquake hit Rhodes about 226 BC. 
The city was badly damaged, and the Colossus was broken at its weakest point -- the knee.
The Rhodians received an immediate offer from Ptolemy III Eurgetes of Egypt to cover all restoration costs for the toppled monument. 
They disassembled the remains of the broken Colossus and sold them to a Jew from Syria. 
It is said that the fragments had to be transported to Syria on the backs of 900 camels. 
 It has long been believed that the Colossus stood in front of the Mandraki harbor, one of many in the city of Rhodes, straddling its entrance. 
Given the height of the statue and the width of the harbor mouth, this picture is rather impossible than improbable. 
Moreover, the fallen Colossus would have blocked the harbor entrance.
 Recent studies suggest that it was erected either on the eastern promontory of the Mandraki harbor, or even further inland. 
The project was commissioned by the Rhodian sculptor Chares of Lindos.
 To build the statue, his workers cast the outer bronze skin parts. 
The base was made of white marble, and the feet and ankle of the statue were first fixed. 
The structure was gradually erected as the bronze form was fortified with an iron and stone framework. 
To reach the higher parts, an earth ramp was built around the statue and was later removed. 
When the colossus was finished, it stood about 33 m (110 ft) high. 
And when it fell, "few people can make their arms meet round the thumb", wrote Pliny. 
Although we do not know the true shape and appearance of the Colossus, modern reconstructions with the statue standing upright are more accurate than older drawings. 
Although it disappeared from existence, the ancient World Wonder inspired modern artists such as French sculptor Auguste Bartholdi best known by his famous work: 
Is it simply a temple?, how could it take its place among other unique structures such as the Pyramid, the Hanging Gardens, and the Colossus of Rhodes? 
For the people who actually visited it, the answer was simple; it was not just a temple.
 It was the most beautiful structure on earth.
It was built in honor of the Greek goddess of hunting, wild nature, and fertility. 
The ancient city of Ephesus near the modern town of Selcuk, about 50 km south of Izmir (Smyrna) in Turkey. 
Although the foundation of the temple dates back to the seventh century BC, the structure that earned a spot in the list of Wonders was built around 550 BC. 
Referred to as the great marble temple, or temple D, it was sponsored by the Lydian king Croesus and was designed by the Greek architect Chersiphron. 
The Temple was decorated with bronze statues sculpted by the most skilled artists of their time: Pheidias, Polycleitus, Kresilas, and Phradmon. 
The temple served as both a marketplace and a religious institution.
 For years, the sanctuary was visited by merchants, tourists, artisans, and kings who paid homage to the goddess by sharing their profits with her. 
Recent archeological excavations at the site revealed gifts from pilgrims including statuettes of Artemis made of gold and ivory... earrings, bracelets, and necklaces... artifacts from as far as Persia and India. 
On the night of 21 July 356 BC, a man named Herostratus burned the temple to ground in an attempt to immortalize his name, which he did indeed. 
The historian Plutarch later wrote that the goddess was "too busy taking care of the birth of Alexander to send help to her threatened temple". 
And when Alexander the Great conquered Asia Minor, he offered to rebuild the destroyed temple, but the Temple was not restored until after his death in 323 BC.  
The temple was eventually restored and is labeled "Temple E" by archeologists.
When St Paul visited Ephesus to preach Christianity in the first century AD, he was confronted by the Artemis' cult who had no plans to abandon their goddess. 
And when the temple was again destroyed by the Goths in AD 262, the Ephesians vowed to rebuild. 
By the fourth century AD, most Ephesians had converted to Christianity and the temple lost its religious glamour.
 The final chapter came when in AD 401 the Temple of Artemis was torn down by St John Chrysostom. 
Ephesus was later deserted, and only in the late nineteenth century has the site been excavated. 
The digging revealed the temple's foundation and the road to the now swampy site. 
Attempts were recently made to rebuild the temple, but only a few columns have been re-erected. 
The foundation of the temple was rectangular in form, similar to most temples at the time. 
Unlike other sanctuaries, however, the building was made of marble, with a decorated façade overlooking a spacious courtyard. 
Marble steps surrounding the building platform led to the high terrace which was approximately 80 m (260 ft) by 130 m (430 ft) in plan. 
The columns were 20 m (60 ft) high with Ionic capitals and carved circular sides. 
There were 127 columns in total, aligned orthogonally over the whole platform area, except for the central cella or house of the goddess. 
The temple housed many works of art, including four ancient bronze statues of Amazons sculpted by the finest artists at the time. 
When St Paul visited the city, the temple was adorned with golden pillars and silver statuettes, and was decorated with paintings. 
There is no evidence that a statue of the goddess herself was placed at the center of the sanctuary, but there is no reason not to believe so. 
The early detailed descriptions of the temple helped archeologists reconstruct the building. 
Many reconstructions such as that by H.F. von Erlach depicted the façade with a four-column porch which never existed. 
More accurate reconstructions may give us an idea about the general layout of the temple. 
However, its true beauty lies in the architectural and artistic details which will forever remain unknown. 
By Air There are flights from Kolkata (daily) and Guwahati (triweekly) to Agartala.
The airport is 5 km away from Agartala city and taxis and autos transport you to the city.
By Road It takes 3 hours to drive from Dacca, the capital of Bangladesh, to Agartala.
The checkpoint between the two countries of India and Bangladesh is at Akhaura Junction, 2km from Agartala.
Roads link the neighboring states to Agartala.
Direct buses from Guwahati (25 hours) and Silchar (12 hours) ply regularly.
You may even hire 4WDs but buses are definitely safer because they move with armed escorts.
By Train Kumarghat, 140 km away, is the nearest rail station.
But Kumarghat is insurgency prone so check the current situation before going there.
From Kumarghat you can take a bus to Agartala.
Buses usually travel in convoys with armed escorts.
Taxis and auto rickshaws are available in plenty.
You can hire a private car from a travel agent or car rental company to move around Agartala.
Tripura Bhavan, Kautilya Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi110011 (Ph 91011301 5157) Tripura Bhavan, 1 Pretoria Street, Calcutta (Ph 91033242 5703) Tripura Tourism, Palace Compound Agartala (Ph 910381225 930/223 893) Agartala is best visited from October to May.
Rains from June to September often disrupt life and vital communications.
Hotels in Agartala offer basic amenities and few have air conditioned rooms.
Hotel tax is presently 10% and an additional 10% is billed as service tax.
Please insist on a mosquito net to ensure you are not vulnerable to the malarial mosquito Pack light cotton clothes for summer and light woolens for winter.
Rainwear is a must if you are visiting between June and September.
There is little choice as far as eating out is concerned.
Hotels have restaurants attached to them and primarily serve Indian food.
There are no bars or pubs drinking are restricted to ones home or exclusive clubs.
Entertainment is limited to cinema halls that screen Hindi and Bengali movies.
Agartala has no nightlife because of the intermittent insurgency.
Agartala is renowned for its excellent hand woven cotton fabrics; indeed weaving is a widespread, household occupation among the tribal people.
This is the place to buy all sorts of woven material with colorful and unusual tribal motifs.
The other worthwhile products are cane and bamboo furniture, woodcarvings and decorative handicrafts like lampshades, toys and tribal jewelry.
53km to the south of Agartala is the water palace, built in 1930 in the middle of Rudrasagar Lake.
Singing boatmen will row you across the lake to the palace, which is a fairy tale delight in striking white and red.
The palace has towers, open pavilions, summerhouses and little bridges, making it a great place to explore.
Presently being restored, this palace is particularly beautiful at night with the floodlights lit.
There is a tourist lodge on the lake that provides basic accommodation and has a decent restaurant.
33km from Agartala is a botanical garden with a beautifully kept small zoo.
The lake here attracts migratory birds and the enclosures have animals like tigers, cheetahs, lions, bears and a rhino Elephant rides and boating in the lake are added attractions.
Contact the Conservator of Forests in Agartala for booking accommodation in the Forest Bungalow here, which has well kept gardens and provides reasonably good food.
is 180 km northeast of Agartala, where you see several gigantic, rockcut images of the Hindu gods Shiva and Ganesha carved on a sheer hillside, dating back to the 8 th  century.
Legend has it that a gifted sculptor carved one less than a crore (ten million) images overnight, hence the name 'unakoti ("koti" meaning crore).
The other version is that Shiva (the Hindu God of destruction) along with a crore of gods and goddesses were on a pilgrimage.
The central Shiva is called Unakoteshwara Kal Bhairava.
There is a Nandi (Shivas divine bull) half buried in the hill.
75 km from Agartala is, 'The Peak of Gods, where there are rock carvings of Hindu Gods like Shiva (the destroyer), Vishnu (the protector), Kartik (god of travel) and Durga (Goddess Shakti).
100 km south of Agartala is where excavations are still in progress.
It is a veritable treasure house of Buddhist sculptures.
These rock cut sites are dated to the 8 th or 9 th centuries.