The best season to visit Chennai Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary, 30-hectare park is between November and February.
Chennai Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary is 85 kms from Chennai.
Kancheepuram is the golden city of temples is one of the seven most famous holy cities of Hindu mythology.
The weavers of Kancheepuram have been famous from ancient times for some of the best woven silk sarees in the world.
Adi Shankaracharya, one of the greatest gurus of Hindu spirituality established his ashram in Kancheepuram which is 75 kms from Chennai.
While Chennai celebrates most major Indian festivals, Pongal - the harvest festival is Tamil Nadu's own festival.
Chennai is well connected with almost every major South Indian city.
Chennai is extremely well connected by air with major cities in India and is served by Indian Airlines, Jet airways and Sahara Airlines with frequent flights.
Chennai is also an International Airport as well and is served by several International Airlines including British Airways, Lufthansa, Malaysian Airlines, Singapore Airlines, Airlanka, Emirates, Indian Airlines, Air India and a few others.
Chennai is well connected to Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, and Hyderabad and to almost all other cities in Southern India by a network of super fast trains.
Just beyond the tip of the land lies a huge rock on which is built the Vivekananda Memorial.
When you stand on this rock and face the east, the waves of the Bay of Bengal lap your feet.
Look up north and you will see a mighty nation, whose feet are washed by three oceans.
The road to Kanyakumari is broad, airy and tree-lined, since it is a national highway, it is well-kept.
The Port Blair is the landing and departure point for boat excursions in the Andamans, is an ideal base for touring the archipelago of 321 islands.
In Port Blair itself, one can see the Cellular Jail, built by the British in the beginning of the century it is now a memorial to Indian Prisoners.
Other islands one can visit from Port Blair itself would be Wandour Beach, Corbyn’s Cove, Jolly Buoy, and Ross Island.
Port Blair is connected to Calcutta and Chennai by Alliance Air.
Regular passenger ship services viz. M.V. Akbar and M.V. Nicobar and M.V. Nancowry are plying between Port Blair and Chennai (1190 kms), Calcutta (1255 kms), Vizag (1200 kms).  
There are 2 sailings in a month each from Calcutta and Madras to Port Blair & vice versa. 
Foreign tourists need a special permit to visit the Andaman Islands. 
This can be obtained from Indian Missions abroad or the immigration authorities in Mumbai, Calcutta, Delhi, and Chennai or on arrival at Port Blair.
Foreign Nationals are not allowed to visit Nicobar Islands. 
This permit is valid for Port Blair Municipal Area; Havelock Islands; Long; Neil Islands; Mayabunder, Diglipur, Rangat for a period of one month where night halt is permitted. 
However only a day's visit is allowed to places like Jolly Buoy; South Cinque; Red Skin; Moun hariet and Madhuban.
Indian nationals need no special permits to visit Andamans, however permits are required to visit Nicobar Islands, issued by The Deputy Commissioner, Andamans at Port Blair.
Andhra Pradesh, once a part of the Mauryan Empire during the reign of Ashoka, became an important Buddhist centre.
One can still see evidences of the early Buddhist influence in Amravati and at Nagarjunakonda, one of the greatest archaeological sites in the country.
The fifth largest state of India, Andhra Pradesh is irrigated by the mighty Krishna and the Godavari rivers and is aptly termed as the 'Rice Granary of India'.
Telugu is the main language of communication though the Muslim rule has paved the way of Urdu also.
Andhra Pradesh is the home of rich cultural heritage and handicrafts.
Kuchipudi, the classical dance originating from the state has vigorous choreography and is somewhat akin to Bharatanatyam.
The craftsmen of Andhra have given to India their unique creations - Kalamkari vegetable dyed textiles, lacquer paintings from Nirmal, wood craft, Pochampalli silks, Hyderabad pearls and an extremely attractive and glittering array of glass bangles.
Andhra Pradesh is also the home of the colorful Lambanis and Banjaras - Nomadic tribes and some of them turn up as pavement sellers offering their highly ornate long skirts and silver jewellery.
Charminar is a rectangular Four Arched Monumental Gate often described as 'The Arch of Triumph of the East'. 
In Salar Jung Museum there are one man collection of Manuscripts, ancient weapons, costumes and curios. High Court buildings. 
Golconda Fort is situated on the Western outskirts of Hyderabad. 
The fort built in the 13th century, served the kings as a stronghold, administrative centre and market place.
Lepakshi has become a major tourist attraction because of the finest architecture and paintings found in the temples here.
Unlike most of the South Indian temples, the temple does not have a prominent Vimana on the sanctum, but it has many Vimana like structures on top of the temple, indicating several cells of Gods housed in this temple.
Upstream of the Krishna river is Nagarjunakonda associated with the famous Buddhist scholar of 2nd century, Nagarjuna.
The Indian archaeologists have salvaged the precious ruins from their ancient site, lifting them atop a hill and setting them up in a Vihara style museum.
Tirupati is one of the most important and among the richest temples of South India.
Tirupati is famous for the shrine on the 'Seven Hills' of Tirumala which attract millions of pilgrims from all over India.
Indian Airlines connect Hyderabad with Bhubaneswar, Bangalore, Mumbai, Calcutta, Delhi, Chennai, Nagpur and Vishakapatnam.
Regular bus service connect Hyderabad with Bangalore, Chennai, Nagpur, Tirupati and other tourist centers in Andhra Pradesh.
Hyderabad, the fifth largest metropolis of India, is the state capital of Andhra Pradesh, known for its rich history and culture with monuments, mosques, temples, a rich and varied heritage in arts, crafts and dance.
It is rare to come across a place that welcomes the 21st century with an 'adaab'.
Hyderabad is one such place where is so much to awe the senses, from the magnificent food to the majestic monuments, from its terrific landscapes to a populace steeped in respect and tradition.
Consisting of the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, Hyderabad is also the capital of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
Once the largest princely state in India, Hyderabad had its own flag, currency, railway, and postal system, before being incorporated into the Indian nation.
With a rich history, Hyderabad boasts of some fine examples of Qutub Shahi architecture - the Jami Masjid, the Mecca Masjid, Toli Masjid and of course, the impressive symbol of Hyderabad, the Charminar.
A unique feature of the city is that Hyderabad is the only city in the south, where the major language spoken is Urdu.
Home to the Nizams, reportedly, the world's richest royals, Hyderabad is also home to famous folk arts like shadow puppetry and kuchipudi.
The Musi river passing through the middle of Hyderabad city flows in an easterly direction.
Though the climate is suitable for visit anytime of the year, the best season is between October-February and just avoids June when it is too hot to sightsee.
The principle landmark of Hyderabad is the Charminar (four towers), the massive arch built by Mohammed Quli Qutub Shah in 1591 to commemorate the end of a devastating epidemic of the plague.
There is a small mosque on the second floor, which is the oldest in Hyderabad.
In the south-east corner is a small Hindu shrine honoring Laxmi, the goddess of wealth.
One of Hyderabad's prime attractions is the Salar Jung Museum, the world's largest collection by a single individual, Sir Yusaf Ali Salar Jung III.
The 36 rooms, house around 35,000 exhibits from all over the world including sculptures, illuminated manuscripts, unusual collections of jade, marble statues, rare manuscripts, Persian miniature paintings, Chinese porcelain and other objects d'art.
The collected items in the museum could be far better classified because a lot of the really good pieces of art need to be hunted for.
One of the largest mosques in the world, the Mecca Masjid is said to accommodate upto 10,000 worshippers.
The foundation of the mosque was laid during the reign of Mohammed Quli Qutub Shah in 1614, but was completed only in 1687, when the Golconda Kingdom was annexed by Emperor Aurangzeb.
Hyderabad also boasts of one of the largest zoos in India, the Nehru Zoological Park.
Nehru Zoological Park is spread over 1.2 sq. kms of landscaped gardens and houses about 3000 animals.
There's a prehistoric animal section, a toy train ride around the park, a lion safari and a nocturnal section.
The Birla Mandir stands on a hill overlooking the south end of Hussain Sagar.
Birla Mandir is a splendid temple built entirely out of white marble.
The Birla Planetarium is also quite a crowd-puller.
A short distance away from the city looms one of the most magnificent fortresses in India, the Golconda Fort.
The fort dates back to the time of the Qutub Shahi kings, though its origin has been traced to earlier periods, to the reign of the Yadavas and later the Kakatiyas.
The fortress is built on a granite hill 120 meters high and its gates are studded with menacing iron spikes, intended to discourage elephants from battering them down.
What is unique about this fort is its system of acoustics; the sound of hands clapped at the entry gate can be heard quite clearly at the top of the hill, at a height of 61m.
The stately tombs of the Qutub Shahi rulers lie just outside the outer wall of the Golconda fort.
They lie amidst beautifully kept gardens and a number of them have intricately carved stonework.
Hyderabad has a rich cultural heritage, which encloses within itself an amalgam of various religious and cultural communities.
Many of these are common with the rest of the country; some are celebrated with a distinct touch that carries the flavor of the city.
One has to remember that Hyderabad is a predominantly Islamic state and therefore, it stands to reason that the festivals that stand out will be those of the Muslims.
But then again, like the rest of India, there are festivals that are celebrated by all, regardless of one's own religion.
Hyderabad is well connected with almost every major South Indian city.
Hyderabad is extremely well connected by air with major cities in India and is served by Indian Airlines, Jet airways and Sahara Airlines with frequent flights.
Hyderabad is now an International Airport as well and is currently served by Qatar Airways, Emirates, Malaysian Airlines, Indian Airlines, Air India and a few other International Airlines.
Hyderabad is well connected to Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and Bangalore and to almost all other cities in Southern India by a network of Super fast trains.
Vishakapatnam, which derives its name from Vishka, the god of valor, is situated along the east coast on the Bay of Bengal.
The city has a natural harbor and a beach stretching endlessly into the horizon, against a backdrop of low hills and hidden creeks.
Vizag, as it is commonly known, is the commercial and industrial heart of northeastern Andhra Pradesh.
Originally there were two separate towns -- Waltair and Vishakapatnam, however, due to rapid development the two have virtually merged.
Named after a certain Monsieur Ross who built a house on it in 1864, it has now been converted into a chapel.
From Ross Hill there were excellent views of the ship building yard and the port channel, which was the entrance of the harbor for ships and liners. 
Arunachal Pradesh is the land of the dawn lit mountains’ is one of the most pristine areas in India.
The history of Arunachal Pradesh is a virtual treasure trove of myths and fascinating traditions, but the recorded history of this state is available only from the 16th century onwards, when the Ahom kings began to rule Assam.
Arunachal Pradesh was made a full fledged state on 20th February, 1987.
The greatest attraction of the state is its dazzling array of flora and fauna, in a habitat that combines glacial terrain, alpine meadows, and sub-tropical rain forests.
Arunachal Pradesh is surrounded by Bhutan on the west, China on the north - east, Myanmar on the east and by the Indian state of Assam on the southern side.
Arunachal Pradesh mainly consists of verdant mountainous ranges sloping to the plains of Assam, and has the largest area in the north-east region.
Agriculture is the main occupation of the people of Arunachal Pradesh.
The principal crop of this area is rice, and other important crops include maize, millets, wheat, pulses, potato, sugarcane and oilseeds.
In Bomdila Tawang and the nearby Buddhist monastery, which is the largest in India are places worth a visit.
Itanagar is famous for its excavated ruins of the historical Ita Fort, and other tourist attractions here would be Gyaker Sinyi or the   Ganga Lake. 