The coastal city of Banten, 75 kilometers west of Jakarta on the northern coast of Java, was one of the Asia's largest cosmopolitan trading harbors in the 16th and 17th century.
Ships visited its port from Malacca, China, Vietnam, India, Arab, Portugal and Netherlands. At its peek, it was almost as important as Amsterdam.
There are still old buildings left which are worth a visit for someone who is interested in the history of Indonesia before and during the colonial times.
Bengkulu is the smallest and lowest populated province of Sumatra.
Bengkulu province is located on the southwest coast of Sumatra. It occupies of 19,831 sq. km area and has about one million populations, comprising mostly Rejang, Malay, Bugis and Chinese ethnic ancestry people.
Bukit Barisan mountain range constitutes its northeastern border, beyond which laid of South Sumatra province and Jambi province.
Tigers and elephants wander through the remains of the original rainforest, where exotic rafflesia's and orchids grow.
The British founded Bengkulu in 1685. It is a university town and administrative centre.
It is the last territory in Indonesia to be held by the British. Fort Marlborough, constructed in 1762, is a castle with gatehouse that contains old gravestones with English inscription.
Sir Stamford Raffles, who later found Singapore, was lieutenant - government of Bengkulu from 1818 to 1823.
Thomas Stamford Raffles was an important figure in Bengkulu history, which in 1817 was appointed as a Lieutenant-Governor of Bencoolen, the only territory in the area, which the Dutch had never managed to bring under their control.
Raffles was an extraordinary and energetic man of wide-ranging interests.
In the year of his arrival, he and a botanist named Joseph Arnold discovered the world's largest flower, at Manna River near Lubuktapi, in South Bengkulu. The flower is now known as Rafflesia Arnoldi and is the official symbol of Bengkulu province.
Tabah Penanjung, an hour drive into the hills above Bengkulu is a nature reserve where rafflesias are often found. Mt Bukit Kaba, near the hill town of Curup can be climbed in a day from Bengkulu.
Geographically, Bengkulu is located between 2o and 5o South Latitude and between 101o and 104o EasternLongitude,thisProvinceisborderedby:EastSide:JambiProvinceWest Side: Indian OceanSouth Side: Lampung Province and Indian Ocean North Side: West Sumatra Province
Bengkulu Province is divided among 1 municipality and 3 districts, with Bengkulu as its capital city.
TemperatureIts humidity is 87% and the rainfall ranges 3,598 mm per year. The temperature of this area ranges between 22.2o C and 31.1o C.
Bengkulu Province has an indigenous community consisted of Manna, Muko-Muko, and Minang.
A transmigration program supports a migration flow to this province. The population density of this province was 68 people per Km2.
Compared to the average national population growth amounted to 2.144% per year; this province was on the higher level with 3.42% per year in the 1990-1994.
Bengkulu province is located on the southwest coast of Sumatra. It occupies of 19,831 sq. km area and has about one million populations, comprising mostly Rejang, Malay, Bugis and Chinese ethnic ancestry people.
Bengkulu province area is 21,168-sq.km widths. Bukit Barisan mountain range constitutes its northeastern border, beyond which lie in South Sumatra and Jambi provinces.
Central Java Province, as one of the Indonesia tourist destination areas, offers various kinds of tourist attractions whether natural, cultural, or man made features.
Central Java is located exactly in the middle of Java Island.
It borders with West Java Province in the western part, while in the eastern part borders with East Java Province.
Central Java is the island's cultural, geographic, and historic heartland. Universities, dance schools, pottery, handicrafts, textiles and carving, give to the region a rich culture and interesting shopping.
This is also the place of the famous Javanese temples of Borobudur.
But it is not the only ones to be noted; Dieng plateau and Sukuh temple are worth a visit. Performing arts is still widely practiced, and traditional dance dramas (Wayang Orang) or shadow puppets (Wayang Kulit) performances are easy to find.
Mountains cross the entire central portion of the province. The cool slopes contain numerous hill resorts (Tawangmangu, Kaliurang, Sarangan).
The very first Moslem kingdom on the island was founded in 1511 at Demak, about 40 km from Semarang.
Today Demak is a sleepy little town, however, its glory of the past is still visible from one of the major relics, which is still well preserved.
The Grand Mosque, a quaint blend of Hindu and Islamic architecture, still honored and worshipped by Javanese pilgrims.
Surakarta, better known as Solo, is the cradle of Javanese culture in the province.
TV courts of Solo embody the noble value that the Javanese attach to grace and refinement, with majestic ceremonies and royal festivals still held with great pomp and circumstance.
Although no longer the seat of power it once was, descendants of the royal houses of Solo are regarded as leaders of, Javanese culture and traditions, upholding standards of sophistication and conduct.
The rich and fertile plains of the region support an enormous population of over 30 million people.
The low land plains are found alongside the northern beaches.
The high land plains are found in the Center of Central Java with mountains stretching lengthwise from the west to the east with a line of mountains, such as Mount Slamet (3,428 m), Mount Perahu (2,585 m), Mount Sindoro (3,135 m) Mount Sumbing (3,321 m), Mount Merapi (3,142 m), Mount Ungaran (2,050 m).
Near the border with East Java Province is Mount Lawu (3,265 m), while on the northern side there is Mount Muria (1,602 m).
At the feet of these mountains will find pleasant and cool highland plains with beautiful panoramas such as Baturaden, the Dieng Plateau, Bandungan, Kopeng, Tawangmangu, Solo, etc. Apart from these mountains there are some small mountains and lime mountains.
The Biggest Rivers found in the Central Java are Serayu River, with its source from the Dieng Plateau and "Bengawan Solo" River.
Central Java is located between 5o 40' and 8o 30' South Latitude and between 108o 30' and 111o 30' East Longitude.
A governor as a high rank heads Central Java province; Central Java consists of 35 regencies and municipalities.
Bupati (Regent) and municipalities head the regency by Walikota (Mayor).
The regencies and municipalities divided into district headed by Camat and district divided into villages headed by Lurah or Kepala Desa.
The average temperature of this area is 21o - 32o C with rainy season on October to April and dry season on April to October.
The Freedom of embrace religion is fully guaranteed by government. Islam is a greatest number among the five recognized religions (Moslem, Protestant, Catholic, Buddha and Hindu).
Java language with various dialects is the daily language used by most of Central Java people but Bahasa Indonesia as mother tongue.
The people of Central Java will welcome all of the tourists with hospitable and friendly.
The population is about 30.7 million (based on census in 2002) or about 896 persons per square kilometer with living as farmer, trader, and official government.
Besides original tribe, some foreign tribes stay here such as Arabic, Chinese, Indian and Pakistani. "Kebaya" is representing traditional clothes wearied by woman.
Jakarta is the capital city of the Republic of Indonesia, a country composed of more than 13,000 islands with a population of over 180 million.
Comprising more than 300 ethnic groups speaking 200 different languages, the Indonesia population exhibits marked diversity in its linguistic, culture, and religious traditions.
As the Capital City, Jakarta is a melting pot of representatives from each of these ethnic groups.
Jakarta is a special territory enjoying the status of a province, consisting of Greater Jakarta, covering of 637.44 square km area.
Located on the northern coast of West Java, it is the center of government, commerce and industry and has an extensive communications network with the rest of the country and the outside world.
Strategically positioned in the archipelago, the city is also the principal gateway to the rest of Indonesia. From the Capital City, sophisticated land, air, and sea transport is available to the rest of the country and beyond.
Jakarta is one of Indonesia's designated tourist areas.
Jakarta is a gateway to other tourist destinations in Indonesia and is equipped with all the means of modern transportation by air, sea, rail, or by land. It has the largest and most modern airport in the country, the most important harbor in Indonesia and is well connected by rail of good roads to other destinations in Java, Sumatra, and Bali.
As Indonesia's main gateway, Soekarno-Hatta International Airport serves a growing number of international airlines and domestic flights. 
Jakarta is a city of contrasts; the traditional and the modern, the rich and the poor, the sacral and the worldly, often stand side by side in this bustling metropolis.
Even its population gathered from all those diverse ethnic and cultural groups, which compose Indonesia, are constantly juxtaposed present reminder of the national motto; Unity in Diversity.
Finding its origin in the small early 16th century harbor town of Sunda Kelapa, Jakarta's founding is thought to have taken place on June 22, 1527, when it was re-named Jayakarta, meaning Glorious Victory by the conquering Prince Fatahillah from neighboring Cirebon.
The Dutch East Indies Company, which captured the town and destroyed it in 1619, changed its name into Batavia and made it the center for the expansion of their power in the East Indies.
Shortly after the outbreak of World War II, Batavia fell into the hands of the invading Japanese forces that changed the name of the city into 'Jakarta' as a gesture aimed at winning the sympathy of the Indonesians.
Geographically, Jambi is located between 0o 45' - 2o 45' Northern Latitude and between 101o 10' - 104o 55' East Longitude.
The name was retained after Indonesia achieved national independence after the war's end.
The ethnic of Jakarta called "Orang Betawi" speaks Betawi Malay, spoken as well in the surrounding towns such as Bekasi and Tangerang.
Their language, Betawi Malay, has two variations: conventional Betawi Malay, spoken by elder people and bred in Jakarta, and modern Jakarta Malay, a slang form spoken by the younger generation and migrants.
Jakarta's architecture reflects to a large extent the influx of outside influences, which came and has remained in this vital seaport city.
Taman Fatahillah Restoration Project, begun in the early 1970s has restored one of the oldest sections of Jakarta also known as Old Batavia to approximately its original state.
The Old Portuguese Church and warehouse have been rehabilitated into living museums. The old Supreme Court building is now a museum of fine arts, which also houses part of the excellent Chinese porcelain collection of former Vice President Adam Malik.
The old Town Hall has become the Jakarta Museum, displaying such rare items as Indonesia's old historical documents and Dutch period furniture.
Its tower clock was once returned to England to be repaired under its lifetime guarantee, which up to now has already lasted hundreds of years.
In recent years, Jakarta has expanded its facilities for visitors with luxury hotels, fine restaurants, exciting nightlife and modern shopping centers.
It contains many tourist attractions such as Taman Mini Indonesia Indah (Beautiful "Indonesia in Miniature" Park), restored colonial period buildings, island resorts in the Pula Seribu (Thousand Island), and an extensive beach recreation complex called Ancol.
"Beautiful Indonesia in Miniature Park" popularly called TMII "Taman Mini Indonesia Indah", built to portray the variety of cultures found within the many islands contained in the Republic of Indonesia, this open-air museum comprises the many architectural forms of arts and traditions of all Indonesia provinces.
Museum is proof of the country's motto of Unity in Diversity as well as Freedom of Religion depicted in the houses of worship built on the grounds.
Jakarta has preserved its past and is developing for the future.
Skyscrapers in the center of the city are part of a new look.
Modern luxury hotels today cater to the discriminating visitors. Transport within the city is plentiful.
Jakarta is the center of the nation's industrial, political and cultural life. It is home to many of the country's finest research institutes, educational facilities, and cultural organizations.
Jakarta is uniquely the seat of both the national as well as the regional government.
Over the last several decades, Jakarta has proudly developed into one of Asia's most prominent metropolitan centers. Today, Jakarta's skyline is covered by modern high rises.
The many state-of-the-art shopping centers, recreation complexes and toll-roads have become hallmarks of the city.
The quality of life and the general welfare of its inhabitants have improved considerably with the city's fast pace of development.
Jakarta's cultural richness and dynamic growth contribute significantly to its growing importance as one of the world's leading capital cities.
Jambi province is located on the east coast of Central Sumatra faces to Malaka Straits sharing borders with four other provinces in Sumatra and has long a melting pot for different ethnic groups.
The earliest inhabitants were the Kubus, who were among the first wave of Malays to migrate to Sumatra.
The ancient kingdom of Melayu developed and grew in Jambi and maintained relations with the mighty kingdoms of Sriwijaya, Majapahit and Singasari, but was eventually attacked and annexed by Sriwijaya in the middle of the 17th century.
Encompassing an area of 53,435 sq km, almost 60% of which is forest, the province is home to a large variety of fauna and flora and an exhilarating place for active and adventurous visitors.
One of the greatest kingdoms in Indonesia history, the Buddhist Empire of Sriwijaya, prospered and grew along the Musi River bank in South Sumatra over a thousand years ago.
Located in the southern-most rim of the South China Sea, close to one of the world's busiest shipping lanes linking the Far East With Europe, the region's historical background is rich and colorful.
Sriwijaya Kingdom practiced a bustling and lucrative trade with ancient China its era of powerful dynasties and in 672,the Chinese scholar Tsing recorded that a thousand monks and scholars could be seen translating and studying Sanskrit in what is now become a regional capital of Palembang.
However, few relics of this memorable era remain.
Streching from the foothills of the mighty Bukit Barisan mountain range in the West Sumatra to Bangka and Belitung Island in the East, South Sumatra province is relatively flat but very fertile, with numerous rivers cutting across the landscape and meandering their way to the sea.
Coffee and tea are grown in plantations in various parts of the province but the area's enormous wealth comes from oil, natural gas, coal, tin and quartz.
Palembang is still the gateway to the province, and together with Pangkal Pinang on Bangka Island and Tanjung Pandan on Belitung, provides the region with three major airports.
All three cities have direct connections with Medan, Batam, Padang and Jakarta and the future will see the introduction of flights to Singapore.
Air-conditioned buses from north and west points of Palembang are also regulary available, as well as the major cities in Java and Bali.