The Pelican State, Bayou State, Louisiana (La Louisianne) was named by French explorer Sieur de La Salle after King Louis XIV of France.
Louisiana is located on the Southern Gulf and is bordered by Mississippi on the east, Gulf of Mexico (south), Texas (west), and Arkansas (north). At 47,720 square miles, Louisiana is the the 31st biggest state.
The climate of all the major regions of Louisiana is characterized by short mild winters and long, hot, and generally humid summers.
Louisiana has been governed under 10 different flags beginning in 1541 with Hernando de Soto's claim of the region for Spain.
La Salle later claimed it for Bourbon France and over the years Louisiana was at one time or another subject to the Union Jack of Great Britain, the Tricolor of Napoleon, the Lone Star flag of the Republic of West Florida and the fifteen stars and stripes of the United States.
At the outbreak of the Civil War, Louisiana became an independent republic for six weeks before joining the Confederacy.
Earlier, in 1803, Louisiana had become a part of the United States because of the region's importance to the trade and security of the American mid-west.
New Orleans and the surrounding territory controlled the mouth of the Mississippi River down which much of the produce of the mid-west traveled to reach market.
To get the vital region in American hands, President Thomas Jefferson negotiated the Louisiana Purchase with Napoleon.
With the acquisition of Louisiana, Jefferson nearly doubled the size of the fledgling U.S. and made it a world power.
Through much of its early history Louisiana was a trading and financial center, and the fertility of its land made it one of the richest regions in America as first indigo then sugar and cotton rose to prominence in world markets.
Many Louisiana planters were among the wealthiest men in America.
The plantation economy was shattered by the Civil War although the state continued to be a powerful agricultural region.
The discovery of sulfur in 1869 and oil in 1901, coupled with the rise of forestry sent the state on a new wave of economic growth. Eventually, Louisiana became a major American producer of oil and natural gas and a center of petroleum refining and petrochemicals manufacturing, which it remains to this day.
Part of the Territory of Orleans, Louisiana became the 18th state to Unite under America on April 30, 1812.
The French inhabitants of Louisiana constitute a unique element in the state's population.
The 'Creoles' are descended from the French, some Spanish, and even some German settlers who came to the colony in the 18th century.
In 1755 the French-speaking people of Acadia, most of which is now part of the Canadian province of Nova Scotia, were ousted from their homes by the British and some of them came to Louisiana beginning in the 1760s.
The Creoles and the Cajuns, who have partly merged, retain much of their original culture, including the French language and the Roman Catholic religion.
The State Capital is Baton Rouge, other major cities or towns include Lake Charles, Monroe, New Orleans, and Shreveport.
The Natural State, Bowie State or Toothpick State (refer to Bowie knives and their handles), Arkansas takes its name from a variation of "Kansas," from the Kansas River and Kansas Indians.
Arkansas is located in the Mid-South; Arkansas is the northwestern most of the states commonly considered the South.
Arkanasas is bordered by Missouri on the north, Tennessee & Mississippi (east), Louisiana (south), Texas & Oklahoma (west). 
For water enthusiasts, Arkansas has more than 9,700 miles of streams and 600,000 acres of lakes.
Fishing for trout and bass remains the number one attraction in Arkansas waters, boating, sailing, swimming, skiing, scuba diving and snorkeling are also popular.
Eighteen rivers are prime floating spots, including America's first national river, the pristine Buffalo River.
Arkansas's widely varied landscapes are home to a history rich in intriguing subplots.
A trip across the state can lead from Mississippi River bottomlands to mid-America's most prominent peaks; from a legacy of Deep South cotton culture to a town on a Wild West frontier.
As the eastern lands were settled, more Indians moved to sparsely inhabited Arkansas.
The Indians who lived in Arkansas included the Folsom people, Bluff Dwellers, Mound Builders, Caddos, Quapaws, Osage, Choctaw and Cherokee.
One hundred and thirty-one years later, two Frenchmen named Marquette and Joliet visited Arkansas briefly.
In 1682, at the mouth of the Mississippi, LaSalle claimed the Mississippi Valley for France, but was later assassinated by two of his companions.
In 1686, Henri De Tonti set out from Fort St. Louis on the Illinois River to meet LaSalle at the mouth of the Mississippi.
In 1762, the entire Louisiana Territory was ceded to Spain, and Spanish governors offered free land and no taxes to encourage settlers to inhabit the area.
In 1803, the Louisiana Purchase was acquired by the United States, and, in 1819, Arkansas was organized as a territory.
By 1836, the Arkansas Territory had the 60,000 residents required to become a state, and after writing an acceptable constitution, was declared the 25th state in the United States.
The new state enjoyed a thirty year period of prosperity, and by 1860 had a population of 435,000, 25 percent of whom were slaves.
The majority of the residents were planters who lived in the rich bottomlands of the east and southeastern portion of the state and farmers who lived in the central and northern hills.
During the Civil War (1861-1865) Slavery increased greatly in Arkansas after a cotton boom in 1818.
Arkansas wasn’t readmitted to the Union until 1868, when it finally adopted a constitution giving African Americans the right to vote and hold office. 
Arkansas's Native American population was peaking when the Spanish explorer Hernando De Soto reached the state in 1541.
There were tens of thousands of people in villages near the Mississippi River and other groups located across the state.
Frenchmen established the first European settlement on the Lower Mississippi near the Arkansas River.
The first clear record of African-Americans in Arkansas is from 1721, more than a hundred years before statehood.
The Golden State, California takes its name from a make-believe island filled with gold in a Spanish novel.
Hollywood has long been the world capital of motion-picture and television film production, in turn drawing numerous tourists.
Other popular California tourist attractions include Disneyland, Sea World, the San Diego Zoo and other theme parks, San Francisco, Tijuana (just across the Mexican border from San Diego), and California's spectacular national parks and miles of beautiful beaches.
With mountains to the east and deserts to the south, California has the best of all worlds. You can Snow Ski in mountains then drive less then two hours and be in soaring high temperatures all in the same day.
National Parks & Monuments include Channel Islands, Death Valley, Joshua Tree, Kings Canyon, Lassen Volcanic, Mojave, Redwood, Sequoia, Yosemite, Cabrillo, Devil's Postpile, Lava Beds, Muir Woods, and Pinnacles.
Spain claimed and occupied California in the interest of increasing Spanish and Catholic influence.
The Spanish colonization was highly authoritarian and subject to all the inefficiencies of centralized planning.
To their credit, the Spanish envisioned the native population as playing an important role as Catholic citizens, but the mission/presidio system failed to adopt the Indians to this role and failed to attract a sufficient number of Spanish settlers. 
When Mexico fought and obtained independence, California lost virtually all its centralized support.
As members of an isolated community, Californians spent three decades in political confusion (at one point, a Californian-based republic was declared).
The richest families turned to the one industry guaranteed to earn a comfortable living -- selling hides and tallow generated from the virtually free cattle that roamed vast ranchos.
In an attempt to increase the non-Indian population, foreigners of all types were admitted.
Soon a sizable minority of Yankees grew, dominating the merchant class and entering into important positions in the political and social structure.
The defense of California, completely neglected by Mexico and lacking support from unstable California administrations, led to the unusual condition where any of several world powers could have easily occupied California.
Just one month after, due to the Mexican-American war that in turn stemmed from the Yankee takeover of Texas, the American Navy took control of California without firing a shot.
Most Californians were resigned to inevitable Yankee rule, though a revolt at Los Angeles led to a pocket of Californian resistance lasting from September 1846 to January 1847.
California was officially made a territory with the end of the Mexican-American war February 2, 1848, nine days before gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill.
Through some local PR efforts, and support in late 1848 from President Polk himself, a gold mania swept the States and the world resulting in the remarkable 49er migration.
The population soared, quickly (and brutally) overwhelming the Californian and Indians.
Political leaders seized the moment to obtain a constitution and voter's ratification by November 1849, with recognition by the U.S. congress in October 1850.
Meanwhile, the great influx of miners was redirected to farming, trade, and business.
The beauty, richness, and climate of California -- as well as a lack of options for bankrupt miners -- kept the population here long after the gold mania died down.
The State of California, a chaotic mix of ethnicity’s and incomes, hopes and cynicism was born. 
During World War II, U.S. citizens of Japanese descent were rounded up and confined in internment camps.
Though the government claimed it was necessary for security reasons, the effort was driven largely by greed.
Today, thousands of Mexicans contribute to the seasonal migrant labor hired to gather and pack crops.
Not all Californian's have cement pools or are movie stars but with a State population that just exceeds the entire population of Canada, California has the largest percentage of millionaires in the U.S.
More immigrants settle in California than any other state, more than one third of the nation's total in 1994.
The most numerous group of immigrants are Asians and Pacific Islanders, though many Mexicans immigrate to California, either legally or by illegally crossing the border between California and Texas.
Whites remain the largest ethnic group but, for the first time, no longer constitute the majority.
The State Capital is Sacramento, other major cities or towns include Los Angeles, San Diego, San Jose, San Francisco, Long Beach, Fresno, Oakland, Santa Ana, and Anaheim.
Show Me State, Bullion State, Lead State, Cave State, Ozark State, Missouri was named after the Missouri river, which was named for the Missouri Indians meaning "canoe haver"
As part of the Louisiana Purchase territory, Missouri has belonged to three nations: France, Spain and the United States.
The area to the west and northwest of the state, which had been in the territory, was commonly known as the "Missouri Country" until May 30, 1854, and certain of the post offices in this area show a Missouri abbreviation in the postmark.
By secret treaty in 1802, Spain ceded the Louisiana Territory back to France.
Pro-slavers became politically powerful, and Mormon settlers, who opposed slavery, were driven from the state in 1839.
Residents also contributed to the violence that tore Kansas apart after the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854.
But there were also anti-slavery leaders, including Senator Thomas Hart Benton, and residents voted against secession in 1861.
Missouri was plagued with lawlessness during and after the war, but became more urbanized and industrialized and less southern as railroads tied it more closely to the East and North.
Nearly three-fifths of the state's black population lives within the city boundaries of Kansas City or St. Louis.
Asians are 1.1 percent of the people, Native Americans 0.4 percent, Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders 0.1 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity 2.3 percent.
Iowa was a named from the Iowa River, which was named for the Iowa Indians; the tribal name 'Ayuxwa means "one who puts to sleep".
Iowa is named for a Native American tribe and is nicknamed for Chief Black Hawk.
Following the Black Hawk War, the Sauk and Fox Indians were forced to make their first land cessions west of the Mississippi.
Black Hawk (a Native American tribe) gave the United States the fertile Mississippi River valley lands of eastern Iowa in exchange for a small amount of cash, 40 barrels of salt, 40 barrels of tobacco and some blacksmithing services.
Today, descendants of the two tribes live in the Meskwaki Settlement, an area of land around Tama in central Iowa that was bought back from the government in 1856.
The first United States citizens to visit present Iowa were members of the Lewis and Clark expedition, which transited the area en route to the Pacific Ocean shortly after the Louisiana Purchase.
Today, a monument commemorates Sergeant Charles Floyd, the only member who died during the expedition.
Acquired by U.S.: Present Iowa was part of the Louisiana Purchase, the vast wilderness President Thomas Jefferson bought from France.
White settlement began with the Black Hawk Purchase, after which Iowa became part of Michigan Territory
In 1836, Michigan achieved statehood and Iowa then became a part of Wisconsin Territory.
Suburban areas and towns not far from the large cities were the fastest growing parts of the state.
Blacks were 2.1 percent of the population, Asians 1.3 percent, Native Americans were 0.3 percent, and those of mixed heritage or not reporting ethnicity were 2.4 percent. Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders numbered 1,009.
A few hundred Sac and Fox Native Americans lived on a small reservation near Tama, but many Native Americans also lived in cities, especially Sioux City.
Minnesota's climate is classified as humid continental because normally there is a sufficient amount of precipitation to provide at least some surplus for runoff, and because Minnesota's temperature conditions are largely controlled by its location in the interior of the large landmass of North America.
The Dakota signed a treaty with the U.S. government for the land where the Minnesota River joins the Mississippi, and, in the 1820s, Fort Snelling was built there. 