Mumtaz and Shah Jehan were married in 1612 and, over the next 18 years, had 14 children together. 
The Empress used to accompany her husband in his military campaigns, and it was in 1630, in Burhanpur, that she gave birth to her last child, for she died in childbirth. 
So great was the Emperor love to his wife that he ordered the building of the most beautiful mausoleum on Earth for her. 
Although it is not known for sure who planned the Taj, the name of an Indian architect of Persian descent, Ustad Ahmad Lahori, has been cited in many sources. 
As soon as construction began in 1630, masons, craftsmen, sculptors, and calligraphers were summoned from Persia, the Ottoman Empire, and Europe to work on the masterpiece. 
The site was chosen near the Capital, Agra on the southwest bank of the River Yamuna. 
The architectural complex is comprised of five main elements: the Darwaza or main gateway, the Bageecha or garden, the Masjid or mosque, the Naqqar Khana or rest house, and the Rauza or the Taj Mahal mausoleum. 
The actual Tomb is situated inside the Taj. 
The unique mughal style combines elements of Persian, Central Asian, and Islamic architecture. 
Most impressive are the black and white chessboard marble floor, the four tall minarets (40 m high) at the corners of the structure, and the majestic dome in the middle. 
On closer look, the lettering of the Quran verses around the archways appears to be uniform, regardless of their height. 
The lettering spacing and density has been customized to give this impression to the beholder. 
Other illusionary effects have been accounted for in the geometry of the tomb and the tall minarets. 
The impressive pietra dura artwork includes geometric elements, plants and flowers, mostly common in Islamic architecture. 
The level of sophistication in artwork becomes obvious when one realizes that a 3 cm decorative element contains more than 50 inlaid gemstones.
The High Dam, located just south of the city of Aswan in Egypt was constructed not only to regulate the yearly flood of the Nile, but also to create a water reservoir capable of storing water to prevent famine during severe droughts. 
Construction of the Dam began in 1960 as a national project, undertaken by Egyptian president Nasser who nationalized the Suez Canal to provide funds for the project. 
With the American and the British refusing to secure a loan for the construction, it was the Soviets that designed the earth structure and provided the equipment required to build the power station. 
During the course of construction, provisions were made to repatriate the Nubian inhabitants, and, in a multi-national effort, to relocate the Great Temple of Abu Simbel. 
In 1970, the Aswan High Dam was inaugurated by president Sadat. 
Today, the reservoir known as Lake Nasser spans approximately 500 kilometers across the Egyptio-Sudanese border. 
In spite of the ecological problems caused by the dam, it has been a blessing to the Egyptian community. 
It left the country unaffected by the drought that hit Africa during the late 1980's, and, in the 1990's, spared Egypt several unexpectedly high floods. 
A regulated agricultural system is now in place, and, in 1996, for the first time, the water in Nasser Lake rose above the spill level. 
Plans are underway to populate the area along the spillway of Toshka and to create new communities along the recently constructed Zayed Canal in the heart of the Sahara Desert.
The Itaipú hydroelectric power plant is the largest development of its kind in operation in the world. 
Built from 1975 to 1991, in a binational development on the Paraná River, Itaipú represents the efforts and accomplishments of two neighboring countries, Brazil and Paraguay. 
The power plant's 18 generating units add up to a total production capacity of 12,600 MW (megawatts) and a reliable output of 75 million MWh a year. 
Itaipú's energy production has broken several records over the recent years, after the last generating unit was commissioned in 1991.
 The generation of 77.212.396 MWh a year in 1995 will again be surpassed in 1996, and the new record will be around the 80 million MWh a year mark. 
The magnitude of the project can also be demonstrated by the fact that in 1995 Itaipú alone responded for 25% of the energy supply in Brazil and 78% in Paraguay. 
The power plant is also a major tourism attraction in the Foz do Iguaçú area, having received around 9 million visitors from 162 countries. 
The Brazilian city of Foz do Iguaçu, also home of the famous Iguaçú Falls, is located at the Western tip of Paraná State, right by the border with Paraguay and Argentina. 
The Itaipú hydroelectric power plant, located 14 kilometers North of the International Bridge linking the cities of Foz do Iguaçú, Brazil, and Ciudad del Este, Paraguay, consists of a series of various types of dams a total distance of 7,744 meters with a crest elevation of 225 meters. 
The Powerhouse is located at the toe of the main Dam, most of it on the river bed and the rest on the Diversion Channel. 
The nominal power of the plant is 12,600 MW, divided between 18 generating units of 700 MW each, 15 of which are located in the main Powerhouse and the remaining three on the Diversion Channel. 
The Spillway is located on the right bank, and it has 14 segmented sluice-gates with a total discharge rate of 62,200 cubic meters per second (twice that of the highest flood- level on record). 
The Concrete Main Dam is of the hollow gravity type and is connected to the Spillway by a concrete buttress-type Wing Dam which continues thereon as a small Cardhfill dike. 
On the left bank a Rockfill Dam is linked to the Main Dam and at the other end to an Earthfill Dam. 
In order to build the main dam wall and the Powerhouse, the river was diverted through a Diversion Channel on the left bank. 
The volumes of construction in Itaipú are also impressive. 
The volume of iron and steel utilized in the Dam structure would be enough to build 380 Eiffel Towers, and the volume of concrete used in Itaipú represents 15 times the volume utilized to build the Channel Tunnel between France and England. 
Itaipú is one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World, according to a worldwide survey conducted by the American Society of civil Engineers (ASCE) and published in Dec. 1995 as a cover article of the North-American "Popular Mechanics". 
The article says that " To build [the Itaipú Dam], workers reenacted a labor of Hercules: they shifted the course of the seventh biggest river in the world (Paraná River, at the Brazil/Paraguay border) and removed more than 50 million tons of earth and rock.
“According to the magazine, "the true marvel of Itaipú, though, is its powerhouse ... a single building that puts out 12,600 megawatts -- enough to power most of California".
The idea of a canal linking the Mediterranean to the Red Sea dates back to ancient times. 
Unlike the modern Canal, earlier ones linked the Red Sea to the Nile, therefore forcing the ships to sail along the River on their journey from Europe to India. 
It has been suggested that the first Canal was dug during the reign of Tuthmosis III, although more solid evidence credits the Pharaoh Necho (Sixth Century BC) for the attempt. 
During the Persian invasion of Egypt, King Darius I ordered the Canal completed. 
The Red Sea Canal consisted of two parts: the first linking the Gulf of Suez to the Great Bitter Lake, and the second connecting the Lake to one of the Nile branches in the Delta. 
The canal remained in good condition during the Ptolemaic era, but fell into disrepair afterwards.
 It was re-dug during the rule of the Roman Emperor Trajan, and later the Arab ruler Amr Ibn-Al-Aas.
 Over the years, it fell again into disrepair, and was completely abandoned upon the discovery of the trade route around Africa. 
It was Napoleon's engineers who, around 1800 AD, revived the idea of a shorter trade route to India via a Suez Canal. 
However, the calculation carried out by the French engineers showed a difference in level of 10 meters between both seas. 
If constructed under such circumstances, a large land area would be flooded. 
Later, the calculations showed to be wrong, and the final attempt to dig the Canal was undertaken by former French Consul in Cairo and famous Canal digger Ferdinand de Lesseps. 
He was granted a "firman" or decree by the khedive Said of Egypt to run the Canal for 99 years after completion. 
In 1859, Egyptian workers started working on the construction of the Canal in conditions described by historians as slave labor, and the project was completed around 1867. 
On November 17, 1869, the Canal was officially inaugurated by Khedive Ismail in an extravagant and lavish ceremony. 
French, British, Russian, and other Royalty were invited for the inauguration which coincided with the re-planning of Cairo. 
A highway was constructed linking Cairo to the new city of Ismailia, an Opera House was built, and Verdi was commissioned to compose his famous opera, "Aida" for the opening ceremony. 
Ironically, Verdi did not complete the work in time and "Aida" premiered at the Cairo Opera a year later. 
The Suez Canal emerged on the political scene in 1956, during the Suez crisis. 
It was in July of that years the Egyptian president Nasser, at age 38, announced the nationalization of the Canal at Mansheya Square in Alexandria in front of a cheering crowd. 
His decision was in response to the British, French, and American refusal for a loan aimed at building the Aswan High Dam. 
The revenue from the Canal, he argued, would help finance the High Dam project. 
The announcement triggered a swift reaction by Great Britain, France, and Israel, who all invaded Egypt less than two months later. 
Their action would be condemned by the International community, and Nasser would eventually claim victorious. 
In 1967, the Canal was closed at the wake of the Six-Day War, when Israel occupied the Sinai Peninsula, causing the Canal to act as a buffer zone between the fighting forces. 
The Egyptians reclaimed the Canal upon the 1973 Arab-Israeli War, and the re-opening ceremony took place in 1975. 
Since then, the Canal, which stretches 167 kms across the Egyptian desert, has been widened twice. 
Today, approximately 50 ships cross the canal daily, and, with the threat of war long gone, the cities and beaches along the Bitter Lakes and the Canal serve as a summer resort for tourists.
Spanning more than 2000 km along the northeastern coast of Australia, the Great Barrier Reef is home to thousands of species of plants and animals. 
The Reef which runs parallel to the Queensland coast has been designated by the Australian Government as a Marine Park. 
Few can imagine the biological diversity of the reef. 
One probably has to realize first that the 2000 km long reef runs predominantly in the North-South direction, therefore spanning a wide range of climates. 
Rain forests and mountains are predominant in the northern islands, while the southern islands are composed mainly of Coral Cay. 
Apart from its environmental value, the area offers visitors a variety of activities including scuba diving, snorkeling, water sports, and birdwatching.
The Iguaçú Falls are located in the Iguaçú National Park, at the border of Brazil and Argentina. 
In a horseshoe form, 2,700 meters wide between the two countries, the Iguaçú Falls fill the visitors's view with the spray of 72 meter-high falls - the number of them varies between 150 and 300, depending on the flow of the Iguaçú River. 
The panorama overwhelms the onlooker with a sensation of fright, fascination and respect for the perfection of nature. 
A visit to the Falls and the contact with wildlife and the spectacle of the waters awake an emotion that many hope to experience once in a lifetime.
On 27 August 1883, the Indonesian island of Rakata almost vanished. 
In fact, about 75% of the land area of Rakata no longer exists. 
It was the most violent volcanic eruption recorded in world history that caused the destruction, and left more than 30,000 dead. 
Krakatau (Krakatoa) volcano was located on the island of Rakata, 40 km off the west coast of Java. 
Since early historic ages, violent volcanic activity has been known to exist in the region. 
The "great eruption" of Krakatau must have taken place around 416 AD, as reported in ancient Javanese scriptures. 
The eruption formed three Islands (Rakata, Panjang, and Sertung), and caused a 7 km long caldera (cavity) to form underneath Rakata. 
When Krakatau erupted again in 1883, the island virtually collapsed into its cavity, 300 m below sea level. 
So violent was the eruption that volcanic ash and debris reached as far west as Madagascar. 
Tidal waves resulted in the destruction of more than 150 villages, and were felt in France and England.
 In Australia, hundreds of kilometers away from the site, the explosion was heard. 
Since the disappearance of Krakatau, smaller eruptions have been observed. 
The ocean floor has been since gradually rising, eventually giving birth in 1927 to a new island, north of what remains of Rakata. 
Today, Anak Krakatau (Son of Krakatau) rises more than 150 m above sea level and is two km in diameter.
There are few appropriate superlatives that have not already been applied to this magnificent natural wonder of the world; in many ways it defies description. 
So vast are the Falls and their setting that it is difficult to grasp their true grandeur and for this reason, they are perhaps best seen from the air.
The Victoria Falls offer an inescapable closeness to the natural elements.