Prepare for your senses to be overwhelmed the restaurants at the Grand Ashok, which put all sorts of culinary delights on the table, crafted by expert chefs with such dedication to perfection that they are completely irresistible. 
Mandrain, the chienese restaruant, has been testing the tateduds of innumerable guests for the last 25 years.
On the sixth floor of the Grand Ashok, painted in colors of greens and wood, it serves the best authentic Chinese with Cantonese and Sichuan you’ll find in Bangalore.
Sit at the rooftop restaurant on a lazy evening with live music and playing, sample the delicious food allow yourself to be lulled into a sense of being transported to the orient.
If you like your food robust and full of flavour look no further than the signature north-west frontier cuisine at Baluchi.
The restaurant uses an authentic indigenous style of cooking and makes mouth watering tawa, kadai, degchi, and legan curries.
The succulent kebabs, both hot and cold, and the variety of breads and rotis are delightful.
There are even exclusive deserts of Baluchistan to sample.
The multicuisine restaurant 24/7 is great for all-day dining, with an array of Maxican, Italian, Mediterranea, Indian and even Banglorean  dishes, while the pastry shops sells an assortment of immaculately baked treats to satisfy your sweet tooth.
Dining out at the magnificent Leela palace kempinski is an event in itself.
For the tastes of the orient, there is only one restaurant in town worth its Wasabi – Zen serves cuisines from Japan, Thailand, Korea, Singapore and Malaysia.
Live counters of teppanyaki, yakitori, Korean, barbeque as well as a well-stocked noodles bar bring authentic Oriental food to you.
On the wine list at Leela Palace Kempinski, rice wines like soju add to the experience.
Jamavar is the Leela’s Indian specialty restaurant, which takes you through a culinary journey into the ancient art of dining.
The menu at Leela Palace Kempinski includes rich and delectable Mughlai dishes whose spices will tingle your tastebuds, all to the gentle strains of classical music wafting through the air. 
The specialties of the restaurant include mouth – watering dishes like salmon ke Kebab, murg methi malai and lobster Nerrulli.
All- day dining is perfect at citrus, which has a display kitchen where expert chefs conjure up a variety of delicacies right in front of your eyes.
There are gourmet salads to convert the most to convert the most reluctant muncher of lettuce, classic risottos and a selection of yummy pizzas made in wood – fired ovens.
The cuisine in it’s restaurants of this regal hotel is known for being delicious and exquisitely crafted – prepare for a wonderful culinary experience.
For a authentic and delightful culinary experience in the heart of Hyderabad, walked into Zafraan Laguna, a restaurant as exotic as its name.
As tarry night, the intoxicating scent of aromatic candles, the soothing strains of the saxophone – it doesn’t take more to make the perfect setting for a romantic evening.
Welcome to the Zafraan Laguna, the restaurant as exotic as its name.
Dine on the finest food in the lap of nature, quite literally, that’s because the decore of Zafraan Laguna, the month – old restaurant from the zafraan stable, boasts of more than 100 plants and 400 fishes. 
Watch the skittish, colorful koi carps, imported from Thailand, in action as you sip a classy cocktail.
At Zafraan Laguna as you wait for the chefs to put your meal together relax to the beat of the lilting  music in the background, study the impressive paintings on the wall or simply admire the impeccable table setting.
Thanks to the tireless efforts of head honcho Mithun Khaitan, Zafraan Laguna offers an authentic international experience in the heart of Charminar city.
The mind boggling variety in the menu might confuse the gourmands.
At Zafraan Laguna we, however, recommend the mouthwatering New Zealand Nrwegian smoked salmon, the classic Maratini, the fantastic collection of Vodka and the simple yet irresistible gelato, an Italian frozen dessert.
The Sunday brunch at Zafraan Laguna is turning out to be the biggest draw, so plan and look well in advance if you want to sample it.
“Laguna is definitelyfor the A- listers and those with a cool high quotient. We want to make this restaurant the very best in every sense,” promises Khaitan.
Discover the wonder of wood carvings along with creation in metal. And there’s honey from the hills for your sweet tooth.
Metal casting and the embossing if designs on metal are longstanding traditions all over the state of Karnataka.
Temple friezes often inspire the motif for these pieces of art, and ornate reproductions of gods and goddesses are among the more popular themes.
The temple town of Udipi is famous for its small images, while the Jain centre Karkala is known for its Jain statues.
Household items made from bell metal are popular in Mangalore and Nagamangala, near Mysore, is known for its bronze casting.
Other centers for metal craft include Bangalore, Shivarapatana, Shravanbelagola and Bidar.
Sandalwood carving: these delicately scented pieces of art probably among the most popular souvenirs to take home from a trip of Karnataka
Choose from the accessories such as beads or pendants, furniture, screens, statues, toys stationary items and even bookmarks made from Sandalwood.
Inlaid furniture and carvings are also available in plenty, especially in the Shimoga, Uttara Kannada and Mysore districts.
The government sandalwood oil factory and Krisnaraja Circl, at the heart of the city are two best places to find Sandalwood products in Mysore.
Another place to check out is cottage arts Emporium at Bangalore.Location: 133, Farah Winsford, Infantry Road.
The famous embroidary called Kasuti Embroidary, popular in Hubli and Dharwad, dates back to the Chalukya period, around the sixth centuary.
Kasuti derives it’s geometric from various temple sculptures, and has for themes animals, birds, gods and goddesses.
There are four variety of Kasuti Embroidery – Navge, Murgi, Menthya and Gavanthi. 
A wedding trousseau in Karnataka is usually incomplete without a Sari with Kasuti, while the emphasis is usually on the elaborately decorated Pallu.
Best places to buy kasuti embroidery are : Priyadarshini Handlooms, Opposite Municiple Corporation Circle, Dharwad; Karnataka Handllom development Corporation, Second Floor, Enkay Complex, Hubli.  
Karnataka’s finest honey comes from Bhagamandalam, near Medikere, in the Kodugu district, where some of the best apiaries are located.
Stock up on plenty of the sweet stuff (Honey) before checking the nearby spices markets for cardamom and pepper.
The town also has a rare apiary museum, if you’re intrigued by the history behind the bee-keeping tradition.
The story of Mysore Silk began in 1912, when the Wodeyar royal family imported 32 looms from Switzerland to nurture the local art of weaving.
Since 1912, the Mysore silk has grown from being a local craft to a global brand, known for its special luster and fine texture.
Made in a Kaleidoscope of colors, and often interwoven with delicate gold thread, these saris have become an integral part of Karnataka’s heritage. 
A bride’s wardrobe will, 99 out of 100 cases, have at least one Mysore Silk Sari.
In Mysore, head to devaraj Urs, Ashok Road and Sayyaji Road, for a range of choices while in Bangalore Deepam Silk International are good options for buying some Mysore silk saris.
Rosewood trees are native to Mysore’s forests, and the local artisans have long been using the wood to carve intricate figurines, god and goddesses, birds and animals.
Rosewood inlay work, also popular, is an art confined to Mysore, unlike the sandalwood carvings the rest of the state is known for.
The shops around the Krishnaraja Circle in Mysore are your beat betswhile others include Karnataka state Art and crafts Emporium and All India crafts Emporium.
The quite hamlet of Channapatana, also known as toy town, is the best place in the state to shop for lacquerware.
It’s a craft paradise by over 3,000local craftsmen. Take your pick from bouquet of lacquerware creations – wooden toys (perhaps the best take – back gifts for the little ones in your family), long curtains, rings and a range of jewellery. 
Channapatana is 60 km from Bangalore. stop at Lacquerware crafts complex here for these beautiful products.
Bidar, a town in north Karnataka, is a centre for a unique style of engraving.  
Believed to have been adopted from a Persian art, the technique involves a design being drawn on an alloy of zinc, copper, tin or lead, and then traced, at various depths, with a chisel.
Ornamental jugs, betel and powder boxes, cutlery, crockery, candlesticks, knives. Hookahs, flower vases and penholders are all embellished this way.
I love the wonderfully fragrant Mysore Sandal soaps from Mysore and old fascinating games like chausar and chaukobara from the crafts council of Karnataka.
For Indo – Western wear, I go to Bandhej and to Ogaan for formalwear. Says Vasundhara Das, Singer and Actor.
A luxury Jewellery brand that have won national and internation acclaim for excellence in Jewellary design, Ganjam has carved for itself a reputation of the finest craftsmanship for exquisite jewellary.
Ganjam offers everything from traditional old jewellary of the royalty of yesteryear to the finest contemporary collections.
Continuous innovations ensure that there is always something new and exciting to look forward in terms of both design and material, at Ganjam.
Ganjam was the first to introduce platinum jewellery in India, and now is only one to have created handicrafts platinum jewellery as well.
For air- conditioned shopping luxury in a large open space, you have to head straight for the Gopalan Malls in Bangalore.
Stylish and welcoming these ultra modern glass structures have a massive space perfect for whole day of retail therapy.
There’s a two – screen multiplex for movie buffs, a children’s play area to keep the little ones entertained and a huge food court with a wide variety of cuisines to suit all tastes and budgets.
Ganjam has stores in Bangalore and Mumbai and also has collaborated with international designers like Kazuo Ogawa and Yumi Kastsura, names to reckon with in the fashion industry.
Shops at Nike, Adidas, and Proline for all kind of sportswear and sports accessories, there’s provogue, Identiti, Lifestyle, Pantaloons, Westside and shoppers stop for the latest in the men’s and women’s fashion, both in Indian and western wear.
Ganjam has been invited to show their collections at Milan, Basel, Tokyo and Paris, just an indication of international value of Ganjam jewellary.
Apart from which, it has been actively involved in the arts, whether by the supporting the annual musical Extravaganza Flights of Fantasy or bringing the international artists like flamenco high priestess Rosana Maya to India. 
Ganjam’s commitment, to put it simply and succinctly, is to both excellence and exclusivity which is reflected in their designs, which take current international trends and adapt them to a uniquely Indian context.
Shop for everything from exquisite jewellary to the most cutting – edge technology for your home to health and beauty products to keep looking young.
The Gopalan Mall, especially the very popular one at Mysore Road, combine brilliant architecture with effortlessly streamlined interiors, to offer a shopping experience unlike any other.
The convenience comforts and pleasure that you’ll find in strolling around this bright space is just wonderful.
Kerala has something for everyone- scenic backwaters and serene leisure; mouth watering food to tickle your taste buds, and a rich cultural heritage for lovers of art, music and dance. 
The ayurvedic spas in Kerala are, perhaps most authentic in the country.
Kerala is also a meeting pot of diverse culture and communities. So a holiday in Kerala enriches not just your body and mind but your very soul.
The people of God’s own country – many of them English speaking – are traditionally hospitable, making every guest feel at home.
To make each experience truly worthwhile for travelers, we plan to upgrade facilities in the state, especially at pilgrimage centers.
So, come to Kerala for a perfect holiday – explore the sun baked beaches, feast your eyes on the lush greenery, feel the rhythm of Kathakali and shop for souvenirs.
A holiday can’t get any better or more memorable.
Stay in the lap of nature, with sunny beaches, serene backwaters or enchanting forests forming the backdrop.
Kumarakom Lake Resort is an island of peace and fanciful luxury.
The ornate cottages are surrounded by rustling coconut trees and well kept gardens in Kumarakom Lake Resort.
A meandering pool, which runs through the property, is charming enough to keep you sitting by its side till sundown.
Foodies will relish the Syrian Christian Duck Roasts at Ettukettu, the multicuisine restaurant. and for delicious prawns and fish, there’s Vembanad the seafood bar.
When you’re in the midst of a coffee,, spice and vanilla plantation, living in a luxurious colonial planter’s bungalow, then it’s not often that you think of climbing a tree.
At tranquil plantation hideaway you will climb on a tree to get the tree house.
Tranquil plantation hideaway: carved out of coffee woods, it’s a show – stealer from where you may not want to step out, through the lush wayanad rainforest beackons seductively.
Poovar island resort: clean, green and glourious sunsets; are key features of the resort.
There’s is plenty more to wax eloquent about the Poovar island Resort – including the hotel’s environmental concerns – but suffice to say it’s as close to heaven on earth as you likely to get on a holiday.
Location, they say, is everything,obviuously that’s somthing taken very seriously at green mensions.
Green mensions: this three bedroom unassuming eco-lodge is situated right in the middle of the Periyar Tiger Reserve.
Green Mansions is a place to embrass nature to trek, go for night safaries, bird watch, or canoe in the lake.camping is also an option.