In Panch Jaungle camp there’s a battery spacious dining area and a well stocked bar.
Once the palace of Maharaja Jivajirao Scindia,this heritage hotel Usha Kiran Palace (named after the maharaja’s dughter) is now in the hands of the Taj Group, who have added that extra touch of luxury and sophistiation to the lavishly decorated suites and deluxe rooms.
The four poster beds and, mosaic furniture floors, antique mirrors and attached marble baths are all part of the royal experience.
Set in extensive manicured lawn Usha Kiran Palace, a regal 120 – year – old building, with ornate stone, carved interiors, marble staircase, sandstone filigree – work screens and arched doorways, is built grace fully around a vast central courtyard, where you can spend many a meditative afternoon.
Fortify yourself at the lovely restaurant, where you can sample Maratha and Nepalese delicacies.
Built a hundred years ago by the son of the Beghum of Bhopal, General Obaidullah Khan, and once the commender – in – chief of the Bhopal State Army, this dazzling white Jehan Numa Palace is now a grand heritage hotel.
Run by the descendants of Beghum of Bhopal, few other hotels can match its standard of hospitality.
For elegance and luxury, the rooms and Darbar Hall of Jehan Numa palace get full marks while the vast courtyards add to the aristocratic ambience. 
Bhopali cuisine is at its best at Shahnama and the new Italian restaurant never disappoints.
Adding to it all other facilities is fantastic view of Upper Lake, just two minute away.
Once the guesthouse of the Maharaja of Dhar, and the venue for banquets and fancy dress balls of British officials the Jhira Bagh palace is an elegant heritage hotel today.
Preserving the flavour of a bygone era, with no televisions or air conditioners, the large high – ceilinged rooms are tastefully decorated with period furniture.
Set in 250 acres of verdant lawns and fields, this luxurious retreat, Jhira Bagh Palace, is ideally situated for visit to Dhar fort, Mandu, the Bagh caves, and the temple of Maheshwar and Omkareshwar.
Overlooking the Bhopal’s glistening Upper Lake is Ivy suites, turned into friendly hotel with hosts Pramod and Manju Sharma offering hospitality that will charm you. 
Every window opens out to a fabulous view to lake and minarets of the city.
Meals are served in a spacious, airy dining cum sitting room with a marble floor and a fish tank bar. 
You can relax in the upstairs lounge or roof terrace, or take a scroll on the lakeside rode, where you’ll find a jetty with boat rides on offer.
Around the corner is Bharat Bhawan, Bhopal’s cultural centre for performing arts and tribal craft where you can catch a show in the evening.
Chaat aficionos will find heaven in the streets of Indore and Gwalior, while every kebab fan will swear by Bhopal’s cuisine.
If it’s spicy, savoury snacks that tickle your palate, Sarafa Bazaar in Indore is the place to go.
The sarafa bazaar is, a stone’s throw from the town centre of Rajawada, is lined with small silver jewellary shops during the day, but transform into a popuilar chaat bazaar after 10 p.m. each night.
In every corner are sizzling tawas with sabut dana khichadi (a light spiced sago concoction), dal kacoris, samosas, mathris, bhutta kis (grated corn sautéed in ghee and garnished with coconut and coriander leaves) garadu (deep fried potatoes) and countless other delights.
For amore substantial treat, try Bafla, a distinctive Malwa specialty.
Bafla is a large round ball of wheat flour roasted on cow dung cakes; it is usually dipped in dal and soaked a lot of ghee.
Also try shikanji, the special thick creamy Malwa milk drink flavored with almonds.
Don’t miss local desserts such as Moong halwa, thick rabri, mawa bati or churma.
In the old city of Bhopal, the aroma of kebabs barbecued every evening wafts through the narrow bustling galis.
Chatori Gali famous for biryani and kebabs near Ibrahimpura is the best bet but there’s a lone stall in Budhwara with the most melt-in-mouth seekh kebabs.
The proprietors of stall in Budhwara has been whipping up these fantastic beef kebabs for over three decades, and while the taste just gets better, the prices haven’t changed a bit – just Rs. 5 for a succulent plateful.
On the street winding past the Moti Masjid are keema samosas and seekh kebabs in a makeshift barbecue.
Ask any vendor for directions where you can get delicious baigan ki boorani, achaar gosht, and rogan josh, all flavoured with nutmeg, mace, garlic, ginger, coriander leavesand kewra.
Deep fried fish (usually sanwal) coated with yoghurt mixed with coriander, garlic and green chillies is another must try.
For a thick, richly flavoured and decidedly ni\on vegetarian twist on humble khichdi, order a plateful of haleem, a split pea, wheat and meat concoction.
Near the old city of Bhopal, Filfora is a tiny restaurant in Koh-e-fiza.
Run by a muslim family that has lived in Bhopal for generations, Koh-e-fiza is simple, hygienic place where you can have your fill of authentic Bhopali Nawabi cuisine.
Try the mouthwatering Bhopali rizala, shami kebabs pasanda, Bihari and galauti kebabs biryani and the fried sweets, shahi Tukra, with its kewara Kewara fragrance.
While you can sit on the small landscape lawns and eat, the place can get rather crowded especially on weekends.
The take – away options often works better – the food is quickly and efficiently packed for you.
From the dawn to midnight, the stalls of Naya Bazaar are packed with people clamouring for the favourite Gwalior breakfast (and snack) of o\piping hot moong dal kachori, flavoured with amchur and fennel seeds and fried in plenty of hot ghee.
Also scrumptious breakfast favourite are the Jalebis, made of maida and sugar syrup, the orange swirls are deep fried in vast amount of ghee.
A visit to Gwalior is not complete until you sample th gajak, a seasame – coated sweets, mixed with ghee and flavoured with cardamom.
A flaky treat; gajak is made in the samll nearby district of Morena, but sold in Gwalior where people jostle for aplace at the counters of the shops that sells boxes of it.
The best quality, without a doubt, is available at Morena Gajak Bhandar in the Naya Sadak Bazaar.
On offer are at least six varieties of this popular sweet, said to warm you up in the winter cold with special ingredients added such as dry fruit, jaggery or revadi, all for about Rs. 100 a kilo.
The flesh of the Kadaknath chicken is jet black which doesn’t look very appetizing, but cooked in a simple curry, it is quite delicious.
Kadaknath chicken is found only in district of Jhabua, which has a large tribal population of Bhils, and is often served on festive occasions.
The best way to get a palm- leaf-full of the rather evil looking concoction is to ask the local food stall owners if they have it on their menu.
For a royal culinary experience, book a table at the elegant Silver Saloon restaurant in the Maharaja of Gwalior’s palaces, now turned into the plush Usha Kiran Palace Hotel.
Enter through the stone archways to your table set in magenta and peech, and lit gently with discreet lamps.
A rich choice of Indian and continental fare is on offer but you go for the Maratha dishes difficult to get elsewhere, expect in Gwalior homes.
Straight out of the royal Scindia kitchen, following 100 year old recipes, are the masala chaas, lamb barbat cooked in special mixture of spices, dal, chicken, paneer ka achaar, and Nepalese mushrooms to name a few. 
Named for its row of 56 shops, Chhappan Bazaar is famous for its array of small eateries.
All eateries of Chhappan Bazaar sell the most delectable pao bhaji (with oodles of Butter), samosas, aloo tikki and chaat, all in atypical Malwa style.
For a carnival atmosphere and the joy of eating, or just for Indore’s famous sweets and lassi, an evening of chaat – stall hopping at Chhappan is your best bet.
For Bhopali Nawabi cuisine at its best, try the Shahnama in Jehan Numa palace, world heritage palace of Bhopal royalty, for the yoghurt – based kormas chicken nawabi and aromatic Bhopali rizala, biryani and the khoya rich shahi tukra.
Famed for its beautiful Maheshwari and chanderi saris, Madhya Pradesh also nurtures a wealth of unique arts and crafts.
Exquisite Maheshwari zari bordered saris and dupattas, made from a unique cotton and silk, can be bought almost straight off the Rehwa Weaving Society’s Weavers’ looms in Maheshwar, a small town about 90 km from Indore.
Following a 250 – year tradition, the weavers create a contrast of vibrant colors and pastel shades in vegetable dyes.
The pallu of Maheshwari saris features three colors, and reversible border, intricately patterned with floral motifs.
Silk and cotton are finely woven together to create gossamer – fine chanderi (named for a small town in the district of Guna) saris are another must buy.
Pick up both Maheshwari and Chanderi saris from the government run Mrignayani Showroom, new market, Bhopal; it also has outlets in Jabalpur and Indore.
Gwalior’s traditional rag dolls, available at most fairs and marketplaces, are sure to charm.
Rag dolls have colorful, spangled costumes and expressive, painted eyes make them attractive decoration pieces.
A Pithora painting can add vibrant, earthy colors to your décor, brightening up any corner.
This age – old art from the Bhil tribes in Jhabua districts often depicts gods (especially Baba Pithora), surrounded by the animated figures of men and women.
Everyone knows of the gorgeous Chanderi and Maheshewari saris, but also try to pick up the elegant bandhini or bandhej textiles directly from the weavers.
Tribal dhokra metalwork makes for great gifts, especially the images of gods, animals figurines and human statuettes.
Interestingly, the strong colors are made by mixing pigments with milk and mahua liquor!
When in Bhedaghat, pick up the pure white idols or linga, jewellary boxes and animal - shaped curios, which you will find in tiny leading down to the Narmada ghat, made of soapstone, they make lovely gifts.
 In Bhopal’s old chowk Bazaar, head straight for the exquisite beached bags (batuas), sold in the narrow alleys. 
Also distinctive for their fine workmanship area velvet, satin and silk bags, with Zari floral motifs, used by the women Bhopal to keep cosmetics and suparis.
Made in Rewa and Indore, ice jewellary has a golden sheen created by coating tin foil with melted lac.
You can choose from an astonishing range of intricate design.
Buy at Mrignayani or Avanti emporia in new Market, Bhopal or try Ada Bazaar in Indore, where you get lovely lac bangles.
The green, jade – like stone found in the forested district of Balaghat is carved by local craftsmen into delightful boxes, trays and images of deities.
On the way to Mandu, Indore or Maheshwar, take the detour to the Bagh Buddhist rock cut caves.
In the town is the block – printing unit of Ismail Sulemanji Khatri, the award - wining craftsman who has revived the ancient art of making block prints using vegetables dyes from leaves, flower and even bark.
From here you can pick up unusual bedcovers, table linen, saris and dupattas in the traditional black – and red or earthy colors with eye-catching geometric and floral motifs.
Choice Hotels International, the largest group of mid-sized lodging experience in India.
Choice Hotels India has over 30 hotels across 23 destination, offering economy to luxury accommodations under the international brands of Comforttm , Qualitytm and Cariontm
Tourism Potentials in Maharashtra is simply unlimited.
Mumbai remains full of culture and commerce, moving between the two with consummate ease, while Pune balances colonial legacies contemporary living with equal panache.
Maharashtra’s Konkan coastline, meanwhile, boasts sweeping beaches and quiet spots to grant relief from city stress.
From the sparkling, serene sands at Ganpatipule and Ratangiri to the little hamlets of Chiplun.
The Ajanta and Ellora caves are an opportunity to explore time and self, a world heritage site, renowned the world over and made immoral in a million reproductions, a place where Buddhism and Hinduism peaceably rub shoulders. 
We are very keen to promote unexplored tourist destinations in the state, and have announced special programmes in tourism policy to explore places hidden in deep forests, places that still remained untouched. 
From picturesque Konkana to lush green Vidarbha, every part of Maharashtra is a place to see, to enjoy – tourism unlimited.
Opulent heritage palaces, quiet forests retreats, chic boutique hotels or trip on a luxury train – Maharashtra has it all.
Located in picturesque (and pedestrianised) Matheran, surrounded by hills and lush greenery, verandah in the forest is an exclusive and elegant place to stay, a 19th century grand colonial house in the middle of a thick forest.
True to its name, there is a giant verandah, made of its beautifully carved white wooden balustrades, which runs all around the house.
There are gorgeous themed rooms in the verandah in the forest of Matheran, high ceilinged and spacious and the verandah is perfect for lounging with a book in the bright sunshine on chilly days.
There’s no television, no phones and no recreation facilities at all – you’ll feel deliciously cut off from the rest of the world.
Gordon House in the south Mumbai is a boutique hotel that offers three floors of exotic themed rooms – choose between the Scandinavian, Mediterranean and country cottage style. 
The first floor of Gordon house, the hands down favourite, has a distinctly Mediterranean feel, with summery blue- yellow-white decor a Balearic tile mosaics.
The second floor of Hotel is done up in country style, with pine furniture, wooden floors and cosy patchwork quilts.
The third of the Gordon House is Scandinavian in its minimalist decor and open spaces.
The ambience may be a little Kitschy, but it is really quite charming.
The Paragliding Ashram, popularly known as Melissa’s place, is owned by, well, Melissa, who runs this beautiful house amid lush forests facing the Vadiavali lake.
The Paragliding Ashram is more like a friend’s home than a hotel, and offers basic but charming accommodation in the form of  a doremitory, two rooms, two rooms and tents, which you can put under the mango trees on a cool lawns.
The Paragliing Ashram is a quiet place to relax and take endless walks around the lake, or better yet, plunge right into adventure country.