A festival of art, craft, culture and celebrations, organized by U.P. Tourism, it is held every year between the 18th -27th February.
Uttar Pradesh is a land of cultural and geographical diversity, which is blessed by an innumerable perennial rivers, dense forests, and fertile soil.
The Taj Mahal, the one and only one of its kind across the world.
Taj is one of the wonders of the world.
For a breathtaking beautiful view of the Taj Mahal, see it by moonlight.
An estimated 20,000 people worked to complete the Taj, enchanting mausoleum, on the banks of the Yamuna.
With an estimated crowd of 3 million tourists per year Taj attracts about 15000 visitors per day.
One can imagine the crowd! So far away from the maddening crowd, that too free vista for viewing the Taj is on the sandy bank of the river Yamuna at the Mehtab Bagh gardens.
The Mehtab Bagh’s forestry plantations and agricultural fields provide a green forecourt to TajMahal and its reflection in Yamuna.
The great Mughal Emperor Akbar commissioned the construction of the Agra Fort in 1565, A.D.
In Agra there are a number of exquisite buildings like Moti Masjid - a white marble mosque akin to a perfect pearl; Diwan-Am, Diwan-E-Khaas, Musamman Burj - where Shahjahan died in 1666 A.D. Jahangir's Palace; Khaas Mahal and Shish Mahal.
Allahabad is among the largest cities in Uttar Pradesh.
Brahma also referred the Allahabad as `Tirth Raj’ or the `king of all pilgrimage centres’.
Recorded evidence also exists in the revered scriptures – the Vedas and the grand epics, the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, as also in the Puranas – of this holy place Allahabad formerly called Prayag.
Allahabad stands at the confluence of two of India’s holiest rivers, the Ganga and the Yamuna.
Sangam, as the confluence is called, is the venue of many sacred fairs and rituals, and attracts thousands of pilgrims throughout the year.
A third mythical Saraswati river, believed to flow underground towards the Sangam, gives the confluence its other name 'Triveni'.
Emperor Akbar founded this city in 1575 and called it by name of `Illahabas’, which has now become modern Allahabad.
The monarch realized its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in North India and also built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy Sangam.
The chequered history of Allahabad with its religious, cultural and historical ethos also gave rise to several renowned scholars, poets, writers, thinkers, statesmen and leaders.
The city being an important cantonment during the British Raj has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture.
Boats to the Sangam, used by pilgrims and tourists alike, can be rented at the ghat immediately east of the fort,
The sacred Sangam is the confluence of three of the holiest rivers in Hindu mythology – Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati.
At the Sangam, the waters of the Ganges and the Yamuna can be distinctly seen to merge into one.
The holy Sangam is the site for Annual Magha Mela/Ardh Kumbh/Kumbh Mela.
Hindus traditionally regard river confluences as auspicious places, more so the the Sangam at Allahabad, where the Yamuna and the Ganges meet the River of Enlightenment, the mythical Saraswati.
The Maha Kumbh Mela - the "Great" Kumbh Mela - is the largest religious fair in India.
Allahabad’s majestic fort has three magnificent galleries flanked by high towers.
Visitors are allowed to see the Ashokan Pillar and Saraswati Kup, a well, said to be the source of the Saraswati river and Jodhabai Palace.
The gigantic Ashoka pillar, of polished sandstone stands 10.6 meters high, dating back to 232 B.C.
The Ashoka pillar has several edicts and a Persian inscription of Emperor Jahangir in scripted on it.
Visitors need permission to visit the Fort, Patalpuri Temple, Ashoka Pillar and AkshayaVat from Commandant, Ordinance Depot, and Fort.
Ayodhya is situated on the right bank of the river Ghagra or Saryu, as it is called within sacred precincts.
The Ayodhya is closely associated with Lord Rama, the seventh incarnation of Lord Vishnu.
Ayodhya during ancient times was known as Kaushaldesa.
Skand and some other Puranas rank Ayodhya as one of the seven most sacred cities of India.
Ayodhya is also famous for its close association with the epic Ramayana.
Ayodhya is a city of immense antiquity full of historical significance and sacred temples.
The Atharvaveda described Ayodhya as `a city built by Gods and being prosperous as paradise itself’.
Ayodhya is pre-eminently a city of temples yet, all places of worship here are not only of Hindu religion.
At Ayodhya several religions have grown and prospered simultaneously and also at different periods of time in the past.
Remnants of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Islam can still be found in Ayodhya.
A massive structure in the shape of a four sided fort with circular bastions at each corner houses a temple of Hanuman and is the most popular shrine in Ayodhya.
The chief place of worship in Ayodhya is the site of the ancient citadel of Ramkot which stands on an elevated ground in the western part of the city.
Although visited by pilgrims throughout the year, this sacred Ramkot place attracts devotees from all over India and abroad, on `Ram Navami’, the day of Lord’s birth, which is celebrated with great pomp and show, in the Hindu month of Chaitra (March-April).
The temple of Nageshwarnath is said to have been established by Kush the son of Rama.
The quiet and beautiful township of Bithoor is situated on the Kannauj Road, 27 km from Kanpur.
Situated on the banks of the Ganga, Bithoor is of considerable historical and religious importance.
The palace of Nana Sahib was reduced to rubble by the British in 1857 and the only traces remaining of it are some large well heads and broken palace walls.
A panoramic vie of Bithoor can be enjoyed from  Valmiki Ashram.
The foundation stone of Red sandstone ghat was laid by Tikait Rai, a minister of Awadh State.
Mathura, a quiet town on the River Yamuna was transformed into a place of faith after Lord Krishna was born here.
Vrindavan, a village - once noted for its fragrant groves, is where Lord Krishna spent an eventful youth.
Brajbhoomi - the land where Lord Krishna was born and spent his youth.
The city of Mathura, in Uttar Pradesh, the nucleus of Brajbhoomi, is located at a distance of 145 km south- east of Delhi and 58 km north-west of Agra.
Gokul, the village of the gopas (cowherds) in Braj. It was here that he grew to manhood, in the tender care of his foster parents Nand and Yashoda in the happy company of the cowherds.
A long line of picturesque ghats - with their steps leading to the water's edge, arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right bank of the River Yamuna, emphasis the sacred character of the town of Mathura.
The birth place of Lord Krishna, "the best known, best loved and most complex of Lord Vishnu's manifestations" - Mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage.
Today, Mathura is a city of temples and shrines abustle with the thousands of devotees who come to visit the city of Lord Krishna.
Another beautiful shrine, the Gita Mandir, located on the Mathura -Vrindavan Road has a fine image of Shri Krishna in its sanctum.
The most popular shrine at Mathura is the Dwarikadhish Temple to the north of the town, dedicated to Shri Krishna.
There are about 25 ghats in Mathura today, of which the most important is the Vishram Ghat. Where according to legend, Shri Krishna took his rest after killing Kansa.
The Vishram Ghat is lined with elegant temples and some of Mathura's most important shrines are found here - the Mukut Temple, Radha-Damodar, Murli Manohar, Neelkantheshwar, Yamuna-Krishna, Langali Hanuman and Narasimha temples.
No pilgrimage to Mathura is complete without a visit to its kunds.
The Government Museum, Mathura originally founded by F.S. Growse in 1874, is today one of the leading centres for research, study and the preservation of Mathura’s splendid heritage of art.
The most celebrated of Shri Krishna's abode, Gokul lies to the west of Sadabad, 1.6 km from Mahavan and 15 km south-east of Mathura.
Gokul attained importance during the time of Vallabhacharya (1479-1531) when it became a major centre of the Bhakti cult.
Gokul attained importance during the time of Vallabhacharya (1479-1531) when it became a major centre of the Bhakti cult.
It was Gokul that Lord Krishna was brought up in secrecy by Yashoda, in the pastoral beauty of this village on the banks of the Yamuna.
Important sites worth visiting in Gokul include the Gokulnath Temple, Raja Thakur Temple, Gopal Lalji Temple and the Morwala Temple.
Celebrated in ballads and the scriptures for its natural beauty and closely associated with the epic Ramayan, Chitrakoot or "the hill of many wonders" is a hallowed centre of pilgrimage.
The holy town Chitrakoot is set in sylvan surroundings on the banks of the River Mandakini, also known as the Payaswaini river.
The Bharat Milap Temple is located in Kamadgiri.
Sphatik Shila is believed to be the place where Lord Rama and Sita feasted their eyes on the beauty of Chitrakoot.
On the banks of the River Mandakini, and centre of ritual activity, this Ram ghat is the most frequented in Chitrakoot.
123 km from Jhansi, Deogarh is situated on the right bank of the Betwa river, at the western end of the Lalitpur range of hills.
Deogarh is of great antiquarian, epigraphical and archaeological importance and has been integral to the history of the Guptas, the Gurjara-Pratiharas, and the Gondas, the Muslim rulers of Delhi, the Marathas and the British.
Dashavatar Temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu is the earliest known Panchyatan temple in north India.
These 31 Jain temples are somewhat later in origin that the Vishnu temple, but are no less remarkable.
Jain temples are situated inside the fort of Kanali on the hills overlooking the Betwa.
Situated on the Indo-Nepal border in District Lakhimpur-Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve with an area of 614 sq. Km.
Dudhwa Tiger Reserve is one of the finest, of the few remaining examples of the exceedingly diverse and productive tarai eco-systems.
Dudhwa Tiger Reserve is home to a large number of rare and endangered species which includes Tiger, Leopard, Swamp deer, Hispid hare, Bengal Florican, etc.
The Kishanpur Sanctuary located about 30 km from Dudhwa, is the other constituent of the reserve.
Chini Ka Rauza was constructed by Afjal Khan-a high official in the court of Shahjahan, decorated by glazed tiles on the façade, the structure clearly depicts the Persian influence in architecture.
Allahabad today is an important city where history, culture and religion create a confluence…much like the sacred rivers that cares this God-graced land.
Allahabad Fort built by emperor Akbar in 1583 A.D., the fort stands on the banks of the Yamuna near the confluence site.
The immortal Akshaya Vat tree within the Patalauri temple, has found mention in the description of several ancient scriptures,writers and historians.
Kanak Bhawan has images of Sri Rama and Sita wearing gold crowns. It is also known as Sone-ke-Ghar.
Treta ke Thakur temple stands at the place Rama is said to be performed the Ashvamedha Yajnya.
Rishabhadeo Jain Temple, Brahma Kund, Amawan Temple, Tulsi Chaura, Laxman Quila, Angad Tila, Shri Rama Janaki Birla Temple, Tulsi Smarak Bhawan, Ram ki Paidi, Kaleramji ka Mandir, Datuvan Kund, Janki Mahal, Gurudwara Brahma Kund, Ram Katha Museum, Valmiki Ramayan Bhawan, are places of interest in Ayodhya.
The historic town of Bithoor, once famous by the name of ‘Bavan Ghaton ki Nagri’, (city of 52 Ghats) today left with only 29 Ghats.
Valmiki Ashram is located at a height and accessible by a flight of stairs known as the “stairway to heaven”.
Brahmavart Ghat is considered the holiest ghat of Bithoor.
Dhruva teela, this marks the place where the child Dhruva meditated single mindedly as he stood on one leg.
The land of Braj starts from Kotban near Hodel about 95 km from Delhi and ends at Runakta which is known specially for its association with the great poet Surdas, an ardent Krishna devotee.
The Brij has a number of Shaivite temples as well. The chief among them being the Bhuteshwar Mahadev Temple to the west of the town, the Gokarneshwar Temple in the north, the Rangeshwar. Mahadev Temple to the south and the Pipaleshwar Mahadev Temple to the east.
Kamadgiri is a forested hill of prime religious significance; this is believed to be the original Chitrakoot.
Hanuman Dhara is located on a steep hillside; it is approachable by a flight of 360 steps.
Janki Kund is an unusual cave over the Mandakini, said to be the place where Sita bathed