The wide range of pickles in Kerala probably justifies why they are eaten 24X7.
Pickles – mutton and beef are the two vriants – have made their way into the culinary hall of fame.
Sadly, the Bharani or jars (now seen as curios or flower pots in heritage hotels) have given way to glass and plastic bottles.
Palat became famous the world over by beong mentioned in Arundahit Roy’s The God Of Small Things.
Lakshadweep is so beautiful and the people so warm and friendly that you would never want to leave.
Actually just 36 islands make up this tiny drop in the Indian Ocean, of which only 10 are inhabitated.
The best way to enjoy Lakshadweep is by leaving all preconceived ideas and images behind to understand the real beauty of this amazing coral garden. 
Lakshadweep’s ocean offers some of the best underwater experiences you can ask for so, with a little guidance anybody can enjoy the pleasure if Snorkeling or Scuba diving.
The images of the pristine beaches, tranquil lagoons, the secluded and hospitable resorts will stay with you long after you have returned to the city with its fast cars and neon lights.
Each of 10 islands that are inhabited is a tiny principality, cocooned in its own world.
These are not placed for rave parties, but ideal for rediscovering yourself and appreciating the bounties of nature.
If the waters invite you to take the plunge, the swaying palms and the casuarina groves entice you to stay ashore.
Experience the magic by being our guest and we promise you will fall in love with Lakshadweep.
Only whispering of the waves break the silence as you can enjoy the solitude at palm – thatched cottages on these idyllic islands.
Kadmat island beach resort is a favourite destination for Honeymooners.
The two lagoons, on the east and west of the island, add to the appeal of the secluded tourist huts, with all the mod - cons to take you feel at home.
Only the splash of waves breaks the silence as you fill your lungs with sea air and the canopy of coconut palms keeps the sun from scorching you as walk the beach.
Minicoy island resort a fairly new resort adorns Minicoy, an isolated island that has a one of the largest lagoons on Bangaram island.
Apart from all it takes to give you a feel of the coral islands, the resort offers splendid views of an island lake, its surface gleaming like a mirror.
The lagoon a few minutes from Minicoy resort and the dense coconut groves around it are bonus that comes with tiny resort with spotless rooms.
You can walk straight into Agatti island beach resort after getting off the plane.
This eco friendly resort, with its 20 palm thatched cottages, offers some of the best swimming starches on the island and you can also fish in the sparkling blue lagoon and barbecue your catch for dinner.
Agatti, 459 km from Kochi, is connected by flights that operate six days a week.
Bangaram island resort is a luxury at its best in Lakshadweep.
The beach huts with tiled roofs augment the scenic beauty of Bangaram, an uninhabited island also for your more privacy there are villas, which are also more spacious.
The Bangaram island resort offers you the privilege of just doing nothing and getting spoilt with comfort. 
The verandahs at Bangaram island resort are all thatched with palms, galleries to the spectacular view of the sea.
This resort also boasts of the only bar in Lakshadweep, alcohol being a strict no-no on all other islands.
Raise a toast to the exotic ‘fishy’ cuisine of the islands with a swing of local alcohol.
Al – Amin : this no – frills eatery is the best place for beef delicacies.
Hot n spicy, a plate of beef at Al-Amin should be eaten with rice also you can opt for the fish delicacies, made with local spices.
For desserts there is coconut Halwa (if you don’t mind the strong flavor that is) and Laddus. 
Coconut rice is a recipe you can try at home, and it will serve you well in sweltering heat.
To prepare Coconut rice just boil the rice in coconut milk, instead of water, a lagoon fish pickle is perfect accompanied with this but also tastes equally good with regular fish or meat curry.
Mass is combination of tuna and lagoon fish, this recipe is maid and more nutritious.
Mass is the main course for the local population so, any restaurant at market place will serve it.
The small inhabited islands in Lakshadweep are best place to stay.
The Robinson Crusoe type resorts on Bangaram and Kadmat island are spectacular.
Lagoon fish and loads of red chillies are the basic ingredients bathed in vinegar and a handful of locally available spices. 
The resort may not have this fish curry in their menu, but do go ahead and inquire, otherwise head to the market or may be your tourist guide’s home for a helping of this fish delicacy.
Try Kalanji if you are boared of omelettes and toasted bread, this is a light, flaky roti (almost feels like paper) made of rice and is served with milk and sliced bananas.
A heavier and tastier version of of the Kalanji is the Aluura, which comes with a generous coating of eggs and raisins, and sliced with turmeric to give the roti a dash of color.
Coconut Jaggery is an interesting alternative to regular alcohol. 
Tuna pickles: the tiny bottles of pure delight, these are what all traveler stuffs his bag with. Rich and delicious, the chunks of tuna fish in oil and spices can make even the mundane of meals interesting.
The best place to buy these famous pickles is the popular tuna canning factory on Minicoy islands.
You can also pick up cans of tuna chunks, white tuna meat and smoked tuna from factory outlet.
Each inhabited islands of Lakshadweep is home to artisans who sell skillfully crafted products from coir, such as lamp shades in interesting shapes, carpets and mats. 
The coconut shell is also designed into pen stands and jugs, available at local markets, you find the locals selling their creation at affordable prices in stalls. 
If you want a slice of French life in India, come to Pondicherry.
The two distinct cultures have amalgamated beautifully to give Pondicherry its unique identity.
The legacy of French left behind can be seen in the red tomato – can hats and, known as kapis that the traffic police wears.
The brilliant splashes of bouganvillaea, (named after Antonie de Boug?????ainville an admiral in the French navy) adorning the porches of walled mansions or the French delicacies still served in restaurants and cafes.
There is, however, more to Pondicherry than just the French connection, it’s a with saint philosopher sri Aurobindo is yet another glorious chapter.
The Ashram and its philosophy is still of great relevance, which explains why people from all walks of life come here in search of peace. 
There are 350 temples in and around Pondicherry, some of them built in the 10th century.
For a leisurely vacation, Pondicherry is the best destination you find.
From a live – in art gallery to an 18th century bungalow, Pondicherry offers a range of unique experience.
Auroville is a good stay option for those who want a slice of life at Auroville.
A visit to the solar Kitchen is a must – not just see the use of alternative energy but also to savour the golden brown galattes, scrambled eggs and fruit juices, served on the terrace.
Advance booking is recommended at Auroville, while the easiest way to reach there is by taxi or auto rickshaw form Pondicherry.
Think of French windows and balconies overlooking at Bay of Bengal, and you have the Promenade, a Hidesign property, in the heart of Pondicherry.
Every thing is walking distance from Promenade – the sea, the shopping district, the old French quarter.
The lighthouse; a rooftop restaurant, is the ideal place to relax over chilled beer and grilled seafood, the Sunday brunch here is excellent.
Aurodhan Art gallery: The one thing you won’t miss at this ‘live – in gallery’ is the art
The gallery is spread across a lavished 7,5000 sq feet of the 80 year old French building, once used as a marriage hall.
The seven rooms at second and third floors of this Aurodhan art gallery have sea facing windows.
If you want to experience the true Pondicherry, minus the fuss of star hotels, come here at Patricia Guest House.
The yellow bungalow, which belongs to 64 – year – old Patricia Michel, stands out against the green of a well kept garden.
The five rooms and a suite showcase of a Tamil and French style, though Thierry, Patricia’s son, insists it’s not a designer place. 
The Le Dupleix is named after Joseph Francois Dupleix, Pondicherry’s most popular governor.
The Chettinad egg plaster (a mix of egg white and powdered sea shells and yogurt) on the walls and carved wooden highlights, sourced from the Dupleix residence, take you back to the 18th century.
The rooms in The Le Dupleix have intricate woodwork, with upper decks for children in some.
Don’t miss the fusion food – a mix of Tamil, Vietnamese and French, served under a mango tree in the courtyard  
Hotel De L’orient is a charming mix of Tamil and French influences, just like more things in Pondicherry.
The 18th century bungalow, with a rose pink and white façade, has 10 rooms, with four poster beds in teakwood and planter’s chairs.
The newly renovated Temple bay resort a part of GRT group of hotels and resorts overlooking the bay and the shore temples at mamallapuram, is a experience of lifetime.
Wit vast expanses of sea, greenery and lavish lifestyle…GRT temple bay caters to almost all you have dreamt for in a perfect gateway.
If your idea about beach resort is a perfect ambience that allows you to relax, rejuvenate, get closer to nature, soak and chill in the luxury of the resort…Temple Bay is your destination.
An ideal way and place to spend some time in the lap of nature and amidst luxury, Temple Bay has a little something to offer for one and all.
The resort in itself is lavish and caters to all your needs without much of hassle.
The Temple Bay is now open on all three sides, with a spacious lobby, framed by the pools of water, luxurious sitting in the cane and bamboo.
Situated at a distance of 75 km from Chennai, Kanchipuram is one of the seven holy cities in the country and a visit id believed to bestow salvation.
Apart from its temples Kanchipuram is known for its handloom industry as the best silk of the country comes from here.
Woven from pure mulberry silk, the saris woven in dazzling colors and various designs is a delight for any buyer! While there some finger licking delicacies at the GRT Regency Kanchi.
Pondicherry cheers the heart of romantic and pampers the spiritual side too.
You cannot miss the French connection out here, which presents itself in the ways of culture, beauty and of course candid architecture.
At night, the beach is lit up with discreet floodlights that create a surreal effect of the waves pounding the walls of hotel…
Needless to say, Mallapuram just has to feature in your places to visit.
One can have a full scape view of the famous Mallapuram shore temple, a world heritage site under Unesco.
Pondicherry adds its inimitable touch to everything culinary – from exotic French recipes to mundane omelettes.
The lawn of the quaint hotel de Pondicherry add greatly to the ambience of this charming garden restaurant known as Le Club.
Relax under a well lit Shamiana while the chefs dish out one sizzling French creation after another – crabe au safran(crabs in saffron) crevettes grille(grilled prawns with garlic sauce) coq au vin (chicken in red wine sauce).
You are most welcome to get up and dance to the music, so there’s none of the stuffiness associated with French cuisine.
The best steaks in town are served in Satsanga, thanks top the variety of sauces and chefs come up with.
Sprawled in the backyard of a colonial bungalow – with wrought iron and marble - topped tables and cane ‘loungy’ furniture in the porch – satsanga is a restaurant where you can spend hour on end, especially on Sunday mornings.
Coffee.com this is where all the Pondicherry thronged to cheer Zizou (Zinedine Zidane) and this team mates as the French football team took on the Italians at the FIFA world cup finals last year.
This hip’n’happening joint : coffee.com has one of the few giant screens pondicherry can boast of.
Don’t forget to sample the forthy Vietnamese coffee in between sending e-mails from the internet centre.
Indian Coffee House’s green interiours found a place in Martel’s Booker winnig novel, Life of pi.
ICH is a good place to begin your day with the simole yet wholesome breakfast,the aroma of fresh coffee is a fitting complement to the sandwiches and scrambled eggs.