Sightseeing Aizawl is devoid of sunlight for most parts of the day because of its precarious perch on a ridge and the concrete buildings that have come up in the city.
The views from the city are exceptional, especially of the Chaltlang Hill.
All visitors to India are required to carry a passport valid at least for the next 6 months.
Special Permits for Mizoram Foreign tourists require Restricted Area Permit to enter this state, which can be obtained at Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi or Indian Foreign Missions overseas.
Domestic tourists require an Inner Line Permit to travel to Mizoram, which can be obtained from the Mizo Liaison officer at Delhi, Calcutta, Guwahati or Shillong.
Around & About By Air Ajmer does not have an airport of its own but the nearest airport is at Jaipur (130 km).
Buses or taxis available outside the Jaipur airport can be hired for the drive to Ajmer.
By Train Ajmer lies on the main western railways grid and so is well serviced by a number of regular trains that connect it to the important cities in the region.
Ajmer has multiple super fasts, express and mail trains to Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Jodhpur.
The air-conditioned super fast Shatabdi Express connects Ajmer to Delhi most conveniently.
By Road a good national and state highway network links Ajmer to other parts of Rajasthan and many important destinations in India.
Plenty of hired transport is easily available, be it cars, jeeps, minibuses or MUVs and almost all come with experienced drivers.
If you drive your own vehicle, an international or a valid country driving license is mandatory for all drivers, traffic drives on the left and though road traffic is heavy, the roads are in good shape with frequent service and gas stations and highway restaurants enroute.
State and interstate roadways buses, RTDC conducted tours and coaches connect Ajmer to most important cities in the region, including Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Udaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Mt. Abu, Jaisalmer, Mumbai and Delhi.
Private transport is the best for most travelers as public transport system leaves a lot to be desired.
Rent a car, jeep, minibus or MUV through a travel agent or tour operator they come with experienced drivers and that’s a blessing as road traffic tends to be pretty scary with most roads and obstacle course of camels and holy cows, pedestrians and cyclists.
A cheaper mode of travel in the city would be a cycle rickshaw.
 The RTDC offices help with information, guides and paying guest accommodation.
The tourist office also has a counter at the Ajmer Railway Station.
The best time to visit Ajmer is either in the winter months from November to March or more specifically during the annual Urs of Moinuddin Chisti in May or in November at the time of the Pushkar Fair.
There is a wide variety of hotel accommodation for travelers to Ajmer to choose from deluxe, standard, budget and economy, depending on the budget and choice of hotel.
A heritage hotel will cost more than a deluxe while RTDC provides decent, clean accommodation at reasonable prices albeit with few frills.
Pilgrims can try the pilgrim lodgings in Pushkar called Dharamshalas or settle for a tent at the Tourist Village during the Pushkar Fair in November.
The Tourist Office will be able to assist those travelers looking for paying guest accommodation with local families.
Hotels are booked to capacity during the Pushkar Fair and the Urs, so make sure you have reservations done well ahead of time.
Visitors need to carry light cotton clothing, sunscreen with at least 20 SPF, shady hats and sunglasses to combat the bright hot summer sun.
Winter visitors will need one thick jacket/coat, socks, gloves and sweaters.
A comfortable pair of walking shoes and a back pack/valise for the short trips to animal sanctuaries /excursions is a good idea.
A first aid kit with essential medicines for fevers, colds, tummy upsets and antihistamine is necessary even though most chemist shops will have well stocked shelves.
The markets and well equipped shops to meet all but the most obscure of demands.
There are plenty of middle of the road restaurants and cafes in Ajmer that serve an eclectic mix of cuisines at modest prices in modest surroundings.
No ultra smart, elegant bars and restaurants in this predominantly pilgrim town.
The entertainment scene livens up during the Urs with evenings of Sufi music, Qawwalis and poetry reading sessions or at the time of the Pushkar Fair with folk dance and music shows.
The rest of the year, the entertainment scene is fairly humdrum with little on except movies at the local cinema houses.
The annual Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti is held in the month of May and is one of the most visited festivals in India.
Held at the Dargah (mausoleum) of the Sufi saint, pilgrims come from across the Muslim world, as do devotees of other religions, to pay homage to the saint on his death anniversary.
A festival of Sufi music enhances the spiritual aura at the huge fair.
Shops sell religious books, rosaries, mementoes, embroidered carpets and silver ornaments.
Climate Ajmer has a typical desert type climate with hot summers and cold winters and a sharp difference in day and night temperatures in both summer and winter.
Average summer temperatures stand at around 38° C maximum and minimum temperatures of 27°C. 
Cold nights and warm sunny days characterize winter months with average highs of 23°C and minimum temperatures of 5°/4° C.
Ajmer receives around 4050cm of precipitation in the rainy season between July and September.
The city of Ajmer lies in the heart of Rajasthan, some 130 km west of Jaipur.
Literally an oasis surrounded by the rocky Aravalli hills Ajmer is a major tourist destination because of its eventful history, spiritual sites and the neighboring village of Pushkar.
Witness to the rise and fall of several kingdoms, Ajmer's history tells the tales of great romances, heroism and valor.
The social fabric in Ajmer is a truly secular one with both Hindus and Muslims cutting across religious divides to revere its holy land.
The Dargah of Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti, located at the end of a dusty alley in the main market, makes Ajmer an important pilgrim centre for Muslims from all parts of the world and Pushkar is the abode of Lord Brahma, which devout Hindus aspire to visit at least once in their lifetime.
As an important tourist destination the ins and outs of travel in Ajmer are well documented in many a tourist guide.
And having access to reliable information is important in this city where there is a friendly 'guide' at every corner.
Traveling to Ajmer might turn into an exercise that confirms your worst fears of the spiritual meeting the commercial and a tourist will find this out as soon as he lays foot in the city.
Tour guides, apparently persuaded by the 'persistence pays' philosophy, will swarm forth to greet you at the bus stop and getting them to let you go can turn into quite a test.
Be sure you're equipped with all the information you need and head straight for the sights.
Besides the Ajmer Sharif Dargah, there are many other important historical and religious sites.
The Adhai din ka Jhonpara mosque and Taragarh Fort are interesting historical monuments.
Everybody who goes to Ajmer makes the half hour bus journey up Nag Pahar to the town of Pushkar.
The best time to visit Ajmer is of course during the festival of Urs.
If you can stand the Rajasthan heat of May-June then save your trip for this festival when thousands from across India arrive at Ajmer on pilgrimage during this auspicious period.
This is when the Dargah resonates with the uplifting strains of Sufi music and the Tabarukh, a sweet rice preparation that is sacred, is doled out all visitors.
Ajmer is a travel delight, bustling with activity and noise, sights and sound, it is a place that's guaranteed to overwhelm the senses of any tourist.
Habitat Practically in the centre of the western border state of Rajasthan sits the sleepy little town of Ajmer in the folds of the Arravali Range in north western India.
The town is built around the banks of the man made Ana Sagar Lake.
Towards the south west of Jaipur, the state capital, Ajmers main claims to fame is its fine academic institutions and its preeminence as a religious centre for both Muslims as well as Hindus.
The city of Ajmer was founded in the 7th century by Raja Ajaipal Chauhan who named it Ajaimer  or The Invincible Hill.
Close by the king built Taragarh, the very first hill fort in India.
It remained an important Chauhan stronghold till 1193, when the Afghan Mohammed Ghori defeated the last Hindu ruler, Prithviraj Chauhan.
For over three centuries thereafter, Ajmer faced turbulent times changing hands over and over again as one warlord succeeded another.
Finally, a part of the great Mughal Empire, Emperor Akbar accorded it the status of a province in 1556, and used it as the headquarters for his campaigns in Rajasthan.
After the decline of the Mughals, control of Ajmer passed into the hands of the new power brokers, the Marathas, particularly the Scindias of Gwalior.
By 1818, Ajmer had come under the influence of the British who left their legacy in the form of some excellent academic institutions like the King George Military School and the prestigious Mayo College, a public school for the young Rajput Princes.
Ajmer remains the centre of many quality public schools in India to this day.
The most meager that your budget should get is US$25 per day of your stay on this amount, you’ll struggle with dormitory accommodation, look for cheap grub, and constantly try to figure out bus routes and timings but you will just about survive.
It’ll fetch you three decent meals, a spot of shopping and some auto rickshaw rides.
The bare minimum is just under US$20 a day while a top end holiday here could cost upwards of US$125. 
Ajmer is a small town with only a few branches of Indian banks.
Bank holidays vary from region to region.
Major festivals are holidays though it is unlikely that a bank will be closed for longer than 2 days in a row.
Major international credit cards are accepted only in larger hotels and major shops.
Changing money in India can be a tedious process so change substantial amounts at a time.
Not all banks accept traveler’s cheques or currency other than dollars or pound sterling and if you find one that services your needs take advantage of it.
The State Bank of India or the Bank of Baroda, city branch in Ajmer will exchange money and cash traveler’s cheques.
Ajmer is an important pilgrim centre in the country but has neither a well developed industrial base nor the infrastructure to support one.
All development meetings and decision making is done at Jaipur, the state capital.
Sightseeing Ajmer is venerated as a holy place for both Hindus and Muslims.
It has the mausoleum of the Sufi saint, Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti whose blessings are eagerly sought by pilgrims to his Dargah.
The Saints marble domed mausoleum is India’s most important shrine for Muslims and receives an endless flow of visitors of all religions as the sick, the troubled and the childless come here seeking a boon, a blessing or just peace of mind.
Legend has it that the Mughal emperor, Akbar came here to the saint in the 16th century in quest of a boon for an heir and the saint obliged.
The Urs or annual pilgrimage of the devout is celebrated each May at the Dargah with millions of pilgrims arriving in Ajmer to pay homage.
Lengthy queues of several kilometers snake their way past the tomb at the shrine while outside the Dargah precincts, two massive cauldrons cook sweet rice garnished with dry fruits and condiments to be served as Tabarukh or sanctified food.
Within the Dargah lies a mosque, built by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan.
Like all of Shah Jahans buildings, the mosque too, is an architectural marvel a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow courtyard for the faithful to pray in, richly embellished with ornate calligraphic inscriptions and delicate carvings and detailed trelliswork.
A short walk north of the Dargah brings you to the oldest surviving monument of Ajmers Muslim rule, the remarkable Adhai din ka Jhonpara.
In 1193 A.D, the Afghan Mohammad Ghori conquered Ajmer and converted a Sanskrit school into a mosque by adding a seven arched wall in front of the pillared hall in just two and a half days.
Taragarh Fort was built on a hilltop by Ajaipal Chauhan, the founder of the city in the 7th century and is about 3 km from the city of Ajmer.
A steep climb up rewards the weary visitor with an amazing bird’s eye view of Ajmer.
A spectacular road journey up and over the Nag Pahar (Snake Mountain) brings you to the holy town of (11 km away), on the banks of the picturesque Pushkar Lake.
Just 27 km north of Ajmer is the small erstwhile kingdom of Kishangarh, whose remarkable contribution to Rajasthans culture has been in the field of painting.
The celebrated Kishangarh School of miniature paintings is renowned for its lyrical depiction of the divine lovers, Radha and Krishna.
There is an intricate web of waterways in Kerala, where the sea playfully teases the shore. 
The lagoons gently brush past villages and overhanging grass, and throw back the palms reflection off their blue-green-blue surface.
Kollam and Alleppey hit the tourist map as the launch pad for the backwater cruises.