Adinarayan Bhojanalaya : this belgaum restaurant is renowned far and wide for it’s seafood, so much so that patrons come here from as far as Goa, parts of the south Maharashtra and the Konkan Coast.
An Oasis of tranquility in the heart of the Bangalore, Rejuve – the spa, at the grand Ashok, is a beautiful synthesis of Indian, European and Oriental influence.
Another delicacy of the New Taj Mahal Café is the bibbeupkari (tender cashews plucked before they become nuts and made with grated coconut spices), which is the seasnol offerings.
Any Bangalorean, who has been away from home, will undoubtedly crave the desserts at the city’s unique ice-cream shop, The Corner House, which has now spread to multiple branches beyond the initial one in the Residency Road.
At 3000 feet above the sea level, in the Bababudangiri hills of Chilmanglur, you defiantly are a little closer to Nirvana.
At Adinarayan Bhojanalaya it is preferable to ask waiter’s recommendation instead of diving into the menu.
Chicken Mutton and Pork options are present in abundance too. 
Choose from Sheryas retreat’s yoga and wellness packages to discover the ‘all round excellence’ or ‘Shreyas’ inherent within you, and draw on the expertise of the instructor who conduct these workshops.
Chose your pleasure and your place at this charming plantation getaway – treck, go on a coracle ride, go  birding, explore the nature trail, and  wind down with the delicious barbecue under the stars, before retiring to your cosy colonial bungalow for the night.
Dosas: why dosas, you must be wandering. Isn’t that Tamil Nadu’s culinary Gem? Well, contrary to popular notion Karnataka makes some of the best dosas.
Each guest room is different – the spacious Venkatagiri suite has a verandah and a private dressing area; the Rajadurga Suite rewards early wakers with a spectacular sunrise, and the Kanchipuram suite has it’s own pillared balcony, an old fashioned lime green bathroom, and antique gramophone.
Earlier this year, Tata coffee entered the hospitality sector with a cluster of holiday homes – colonial plantation bungalows – around Coorg.
Even the elevators are done up in leather while each floor has it’s won theme, the hotel also boasts of i-bar, Bangalore’s first lounge bar.
Experience the nature’s healing touch at this garden retreat: Angsana Oasis resort and spa, a few hours from Bangalore.
For a quick snack, try the smiley or the Bambay toast for snacks.
For a unique slice of nature, spend few days here at Bheemeshwari Jungle lodge.
Hand yourself over to masseurs, herbal baths and conditioning treatments, and leave with a glow and new vigor.
I also love the ragi roti at Janpadaloka Kamath in Ramnagaram.
I recommend the Taj West End, Bangalore, for a comfortable stay; also its jogging track is especially good.
I remember the Sunday breakfasts I had as a child at MTR, Bangalore.
I think the Heritage site at Hampi, Pattadakal, Belur, Halebid and many others rival the beauty of Taj Mahal.
In Bangalore, MTR may be the best – known dosa place, but many refer Vidyarthi Bhawan.
Indulge yourself at the lush spa pavillions or soak in the roman poole, and lt your worries be washed away, as you are srubbed and kneaded.
It’s a land of seafood lovers, thanks to a rich coastal cuisine. For small eaters, there are platters of mouthwatering snacks.
Kamat Lokaruchi : this vegetarian eatery is said to best represent the cuisine of the state (apart from the coasts) across all three meals.
Kamat lokaruchi is the most popular rest stop for anyone traveling the Bangalore – Mysore stretch.
Karnataka is the meeting point of traditional and modern India, I feel any journey to India should begin from Bengalooru (formerly Bangalore) or Mysore. 
Koshy’s has something for everyone  - from families gorging on the famous Sunday breakfast of appam and stew and elderly Bangaloreans having their continental lunch  to the glitterati having their evening coffee.
Koshy’s in Bangalore, along with its richer Cousin jewel box, and is a remnant of the old Bangalore.
Located on estates earlier occupied by the planters of Tata coffee, these atmospheric bungalows have been redone beautifully.
Located on the banks of the the Tongbhadra, the delightfully rustic Mango tree serves the best meals (Thalis) in Hampi.
Mangalore Pearl: a delicious fusion of the Konkani and Coastal food in the state has peppered the streets of Karnataka with places where you can feast on the seafood as well as meat preparations.
Most cityfolks recommend the addictive tuppa (ghee) dosa, which melt like well, butter in one’s mouth, served with their own unique chutney.
My all time favourite is the Gol Gumbaj at Bijepur, I really love the sight of its massive dome touching the sky.
None other than British design icon terence confran transformed this four – storeyed low – budget hotel: The Park, into one of India’s Best designer hotel.
Nourishment for the body is as tempting as that for the soul – with a selection of fresh seafood, prepared with produce from the area’s farms. 
Nowadays, I don’t get enough time to do what I like best – revisiting the monuments of Karnataka.
One can also be awed by the Ibrahim Roza, a moque and tomb said to have inspired the making of the Tal Mahal.
One can see Vidyarthi Bhawan’s hyperactive waiters balancing as many as 15 plates of dosa at any time.
One of the largest of its kind in Bangalore, Rejuve – the spa is embellished with beautiful gardens.
Other favourites include the seasonal strawberries with cream and ice – cream and the mint Chocolate fudge.
Regulars prefer the wholesome thalis; other favourites at Adinarayan Bhojanalaya are the stuffed calms and the fried or masala prawns.
Set amidst the 300 acres of coffee and spice plantation, the orange County is a good place to begin to experience the hospitality of Coorg.
Shirish and Manoj Samant, the brothers who own the restaurant called as Adinarayan Bhojanalaya, contributes to the cooking themselves, especially when the large eatery fills up.
Shreyas retreat: this boutique yoga retreat combines ashram- style life with five star luxuries.
Snuggle up under a hand stitched quilt with a book or just sit under the large mango tree, and get away from it all.
So walk in and rediscover tourself at this exclusive spa, an experience you woll not forget in a hurry.
So, don’t come out to Karnataka with just a week in hand, come and stay longer, wander off the beaten track and discover all that the state has to offer. 
Surrounded by tea, coffee and vanilla plantations, explore the many walking trails leading into the hills around.
Swaswara resort, perched on a cliff overlooking Gokarna’s Om Beach, is a resting place for the mind.
Taj Mahal for short, this popular Mangalore restaurant has two branches, be careful it’s probably a sin to not finish off every meal with the Taj Mahal special coffee. 
Take a jeep ride through the vast plantations, visit the cardamom kiln, go on a bird watching expedition or try your hand a round of golf at the company’s golf course, while you’re there.
Take a spice tour to learn how coffee and spices are cultivated, go boating or fishing, or to be infused with new life, step into Vaidyasala in the ayurveda village, and let the 5,000 – year- old secrets if India’s holistic medical system rejuvenates you.
Take in the pictures of old Bangalore on the walls till they put the order together.
The area called as Nirvana has a few intriguing attractions; the Bababundagiri  cave, once the abode of the Sufi saint Hazrat Dada Hayat Mir Kalander; the Mulangiri peak, the highest in the state, and if you are lucky, you’ll see corvia, a mountain flower that blooms once every 14 years. 
The best choices for lunch are the jower roti and the raagi mudde (raagi ball) meals, unique to the southern districts.
The best time to be at Bheemeshwari is, between November and February.
The cold beers help wash down a large variety of offerings, from the filling Sunday Pub lunch to the chicken cutlets or masala prawns.
The crystal package works on the belief that the earts’s energies are absorbed by the gem stones and that have vital healing powers.
The guests at the Jungle lodge at, Bheemeshwari, are also provided with a local guide or ‘gillie’ who is adapt with the coracles, and can help beginners to make a catch. 
The Jungle lodge overlooks the river, teeming with carp, catfish ad famously, the Mahaseer.
The Konkan - style Villas are tucked away in the greenery, with only the lapping of the waves and birdsong breaking the silence. 
The Lalitha Mahal Palace Restaurant gives you the best feel of the royalty Mysore has been home to far generations.
The list is never ending – the World Heritage Site at Hampi, the magnificent St. Aloysius church in coastal Mangalore, the beautiful flora and fauna at Bandipur National Park, the BR Hills Sanctuary enchanting Coorg, or the imposing fortress at Srirangapatna.
The Mango tree special thali is the single best idea here – don’t bother with the rest of the menu, just order the banana coconut lassi.
The meals are served by the owner, Krishna, and his family, on low tables, while one sits on the ground on the straw mats.
The menu at Mangalore pearl offers a stunning choice, ranging from fish curried and fried to some superlative mussels and calm dishes.
The menu at Windsor pub is primarily coastal, with limited but skillfully made continental dishes.
The Mysore masala dosa, the default order, unless you catch the waiter’s attention long enough to choose) is arguably the best in town, with its crispy sides, dollop of butter and delectable coconut chutney.
The Park has one of the most colorful yet classy interiors you will come across.
The Park’s new addition, Aqua, is the haunt for the city’s hip ‘n’ happening, so, come and enjoy your martinis and cognac by the temperature - controlled pool.
The place is crowded on most evenings, especially weekends, and a patient wait is suitably rewarded.
The purpose, primarily, is to dine like a King.
The quaint décor, along with the slow waiters and the eternally old menu, make Koshy’s  the place to be on most evenings.
The resort, which consists of luxurious log hunts on stilts and tented cottages, has a forest as a backdrop.
The restaurant is housed in the erstwhile ballrooms of the Mysore Palace, with a sky high Baroque ceiling with domed sky lights and white Wedgwood decor.  
The Schools – Estate is a 80 – year old estate in Coorg, once home to one of the districts’ missionaries, is enormous, old fashioned, and very cosy.
The setting at the Mango tree is the backyard of a traditional home, under a massive mango tree with a swing.
The sol Kadi is perfect beverage accompaniment, as is the Kokum juice.
The state offers a whole bouquet of experience for tourists just place a finger anywhere on state’s map and you will find a place of interest.
The Swaswara resort also has an Ayurvedic centre and Yoga and meditation facilities.
The thalis are among the most enjoyable choices, apart from the Manglore fish curry and lasooni malai tikka. 
The usual South Indian staples apart, the breakfast menu includes the akki roti, malnad kadubu (Pyramid shaped Idlies wrapped in coconut leaf), raagi dosa and avalakki (beaten rice), some or all of which comprises a superlative meal.
The Villa of red cement floors, teakwood beams and antique rosewood furniture is probably the most authentic heritage experience this city of steel and glass offers you.
The walls are jam packed with posters and pop arts, complementing the lovely art dark wood everywhere.
There are small hotels in Hampi that I find very charming while the Bandipur Wildlife Resort is also another favorite, what with the dence forests as a backdrop.
There are splashes of orange, lime, burnt amber orange and deep purple all around.
These yoga exercises are recommended for the severely stressed out.
They will also know what you mean when you say DBC, the popular acronym for death by chocolate, which is probably the flagship dessert at The Corner House.
This is the dram destination for anyone who wants to escape the cacophony of the clamourous city and soothe his freyed nerves and tired body.
This Mango tree restaurant is just 15 minutes away from Hampi Bazaar.
Try the mutton potraday (wrapped in leaves and cooked in thick coconut gravy), the ravafried seer fish (not on the menu) and the ponpallas.
Try your hand at golf or learn a few Coorgi cooking tips from Rani Aiyapa, known far and wide for her delicious dishes.
Tucked away in the crowed streers of Gandhi Bazaar, Vidyarthi Bhawan has served its loyal patrons since 1938.
Villa Pottipati , a 133 – year- old bungalow surrounded by frui, jacaranda and gulmohar, trees in old Bangalore’s Brahmin stronghold of Malleswaram, has watched the decades go by almost unmoved.
 Wake up to the chirping of birds, enjoy a relaxing message and let the lapping of waves lull you to sleep. 
We would wake up as early as 6 a.m. and make it to MTR for rava Idli, badam milk and the special fruit salad.
Windsor pub located off Miller Road in Bangalore, is this delightfully authentic little pub.
With an aerobics centre, yoga and meditation rooms, squash and tennis courts; there are plenty of fitness options at Angsana Oasis resort and spa.
You don’t have to be an angler to enjoy the scenic woody stretch along the mighty Cauvery, on which the Jungle lodge is located, but if you are, you’ll be doubly delighted.