“Tongkonan” (family houses) are built on stilts with roofs on each end rising like the prows of a ship, representing the cosmos.
The mountains offer a fantastic panorama of natural beauty, including the long drive from Ujung Pandang to Tana Toraja.
South Sulawesi is also known for its silk industry and silverwork whereas its economy is based on agriculture.
Ujung Pandang is easily accessible by air as there are several daily flights from Jakarta and also daily services from Bali, Surabaya and Manado.
Geographical condition and Territory of South Sulawesi Province is at 0°12' - 8° South Latitude and 116°48' - 122°36' East Longitude.
The strategic area in east area of Indonesia has make South Sulawesi functioned as the centre of services, both for east Indonesia area and for international trade.
South Kalimantan Province is located in Kalimantan Island. South Kalimantan is a province of Indonesia. It is one of four Indonesian provinces in Kalimantan - the Indonesian part of the island of Borneo.
There are 11 regencies in South Kalimantan: Banjar, Tanah Bumbu, Kotabaru, Tanah Laut, Barito Kuala, Tapin, Hulu Sungai Selatan, Hulu Sungai Tengah, Hulu Sungai Utara, Balangan, and Tabalong.
Banjarmasin city is the capital of South Kalimantan have face in five dimensions that is; Government Town, Port Town, Commerce Town, Industrial Town and Tourism town.
Banjarmasin city is located in tip of south as the gateway of South Kalimantan, occupy lowland which swamps, and stay between 3150 - 3220 south latitudes and between 114 320 - 114 380 east longitudes.
Riparian life is initial individuality from the growth of this town with it river transportation, beside its land transportation that starting rapidly grow.
The existence of Flora and Fauna in swamps lowland along the length of the river flowing downstream to go upstream and ridge life is a journey corridor of tourism preoccupying.
National tourism is pledge sector in the economic activity, to enlarge foreign exchange, to extend and smooth down opportunity to try and employment, push development of area, introduce nature and cultural and to have fatherland love.
Formerly called the Celebes, Sulawesi is one of the world's most uniquely shaped islands which is often referred to as the "Orchid Shaped Island".
Today, Sulawesi is divided into four provinces, one of them being Southeast Sulawesi, covering the lower eastern leg of this beautiful island.
The province is one of the most remote regions of Sulawesi; no highway connects it to the cities on the rest of the island, so the primary transportation link is a ferry across Bone Sea between Watampone (Bone) in South Sulawesi and Kolaka port.
The population of the province is 1.771,951 (in 2000 Census), most of which is centered on Buton island of the Sulawesi south coast, and around Kendari.
From the seventeenth century until the early twentieth century, the region was the site of the Buton (Butung) sultanate.
The Southeast Province is populated by more than 1,2 million people, in five diverse and interesting cultural groups: Tolaki, Morunene, Buton, Muna (Locally called Wuna), and Bajo.
All offer the visitor a glimpse of life-styles, which have survived man's rush to modernization while using much of today's technology to their advantage.
Most of the land area of southeast Sulawesi is covered by natural jungle, with extensive plantations of teak and ironwood, which are used for local handicraft and contribute to the local economy.
Much of the beauty of the region has been preserved for prosperity by declaring it "National Parks" and "Nature Preserve.
Wonereous animals, living freely, easily seen and appreciated by visitors, inhabit the entire province.
Deer, Wild Pigs, Small Rodent-Like animals called Kus-Kus, Monkey, Snakes, Anoa (small buffalo) and numerous varieties of birds abound.
The hunting of animals is forbidden in national parks preserves and carefully controlled by local government, in other areas.
The friendly of the Sulawesi People, the local flora, fauna, and untouched beaches, are the highlights of this unique located. 
Natural habitats are waiting to show for the visitor who can appreciate such natural beauty and the people who live in it.
Aceh, at the northwestern end of Sumatra, came into contact with the outside world as early as the sixth century AD.
Several Arabic writings of the early ninth century, and later inscriptions found in India mention the area.
In 1292, Marco Polo, on his voyage from China to Persia visited Sumatra and reported that on the northern part of Sumatra there were as many as six trading ports including Ferlec, Samudera and Lambri.
Islam is reported to have reached Aceh between the seventh and eighth centuries AD and the first Islamic kingdom, Perlak was established in 804 AD.
In this year the Portuguese captured Malacca and many Asian and Arabic traders sought to avoid the Malacca Strait and called instead on Aceh's port, bringing wealth and prosperity.
Aceh's dominance in trade and politics in northern parts of Sumatra began, reaching a climax between 1610 and 1640.
In 1824 the London Treaty was signed, giving the Dutch control over all British possessions in Sumatra in return for a Dutch surrender of their establishments in India and an abrogation of all claims on Singapore.
The Aceh War, which lasted intermittently from 1873 to 1942, was the longest ever fought by Holland and cost the Dutch more than 10,000 lives.
The era of industrialization arrived, and with it has come a more open attitude towards things alien.
The Wallace Line, named after 19th century naturalist, Alfred Russell Wallace, marks a point of transition between the flora and fauna of Western and Eastern Indonesia and acts as the Western boundary of West Nusa Tenggara, which includes Lombok Island and Sumbawa.
The difference becomes more pronounced as one move further east where dry seasons are more prolonged and the land is dry and bush-like, and so in many areas corn and sago are the staple food, instead of rice.
At first Islam time come to these islands in the 16th century, four Hindu Kingdoms co-existed in apparent peace what is now called West Nusa Tenggara and is still the religion embraced by those in the west of Lombok, which are primarily Balinese.
Lombok experienced strong Balinese influences in the past, but has still retained a unique identifies.
The indigenous people of Lombok, the Sasaks, are predominantly Moslem and have a strong, distinguished tradition, as do the people of neighboring Sumbawa.
Soft white sand, virgin beaches are typical in Lombok, where the motto is 'You can see Bali in Lombok, but not Lombok in Bali'.
Famous for its 'tenun ikat' hand-woven textiles, the island has exceptional charm and its relatively undiscovered, except for Senggigi City, which becoming a major resort area.
Regulars shuttle flights from Bali and Surabaya as well as ferries provide excellent transportation links within the islands of the province as well as with the rest of the country.
The two largest islands in West Nusa Tenggara province are Lombok in the west and the larger Sumbawa Island in the east.
The Sasak ethnic group mainly inhabits Lombok, with a minority Balinese population then, Sumbawa and Bima ethnic groups inhabit Sumbawa.
The two big islands is Lombok Island with its wide area about 4.738,70 Km2 (23,51%) and Sumbawa Island with 15.414,37 Km' (76,49%) wide area. Beside that, it also surrounded by thousands small islands, such as Gili Air, Gili Meno, Gili Trawangan, Gili Gede, Gili Nanggu, Gili Tangkong, Moyo Island, Bungin Island, Satonda Island, Kaung Island, and Panjang Island.
Enjoy the freedom of a self-catering holiday cottage or chalet, the charms of a traditional seaside hotel or guest house or the great family facilities at holiday centres and caravan parks, you can find your ideal place to stay, by using our search and booking facilities.
Whether you bring your own accommodation and stay in one of the Isle of Wight's touring caravan & camping parks or stay at one of our premier hotels, you can be rest assured that all establishments have been quality inspected and rated to ensure your comfort and peace of mind.
So hop on a ferry and leave the mainland behind, a boat ride across the Solent adds to the adventure, and with a fast efficient transport system, you'll find the Isle of Wight a pleasure to travel around.
Browse our accommodation directory to see the range of accommodation we provide, and if you wish to be more specific in your search requirements we also have an advanced search facility.
There is also the option to book accommodation online, simply run a search from this page and follow a few simple steps to make a booking
For the energetic, there are plenty of activities to enjoy, including windsurfing, sailing and paragliding.
And for those who wish to escape the modern world, we're sure you'll leave the Island having found exactly what you were looking for.
Plan your Isle of Wight holiday with the official tourist board guide to accommodation, places to visit, outdoor activities and events on the Isle of Wight.
For a stress free, fun family holiday the Island is popular all year round, also for those who like a physical challenge, if it's an adventure holiday you are after then look no further.
With over half the Island designated as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and a network of footpaths that stretches over 500 miles it's easy to get close to nature.
Alternatively, if you are looking for somewhere to be spoilt then indulge yourself in the Isle of Wight's fine restaurants, art galleries and historic houses.
With up to 350 ferry crossings a day, it's simple to travel to the Isle of Wight, and once you are there, it's even easier to get around.
Only 2 hours from London, ferry routes connect directly with road, rail and coach links to whisk you off to your Island destination. Enjoy a leisurely crossing by car ferry or catch a high-speed passenger ferry for a swift arrival.
If you are not bringing a car with you, once ashore you can take advantage of the Island's comprehensive network of buses, which are especially geared towards visitors.
There are an amazing number of attractions on the Isle of Wight for a place that measures only 23 miles by 13 miles.
The Isle of Wight has over 60 places to visit with plenty of things to to do come rain or shine! There are fun parks with thrilling rides, animal and bird sanctuaries, carnivals and festivals to delight visitors of all ages.
Wherever you go on the Isle of Wight you will see evidence of a fascinating past, going back to the time of the dinosaurs.
No holiday is complete without a visit to Queen Victoria's favourite seaside home, the magnificent Osborne House, given to the nation by King Edward V11.
Children love to journey back to prehistoric times, looking at fossils and life-sized animated models at the Island's dinosaur museums.
Maritime heritage can be discovered at a number of museums, with displays of pirate gold and silver, and countless artefacts recovered from shipwrecks.
For the energetic, there are plenty of sports facilities, including windsurfing, sailing and paragliding on the other hand for those who prefer to unwind and explore, there's so much to discover.
The Isle of Wight Music Festival, the White Air Extreme Sports Festival, Skandia Cowes Week, the Isle of Wight Walking Festival, the Wight Diamond Mountain Bike Festival, carnivals and concerts - the list goes on. With over 1000 local, national and international events the Isle of Wight is the place to be seen, to compete and to party.
Nowhere in Britain hosts events quite like the Isle of Wight, with a mild climate, a supportive and vibrant local community, a wide range of accommodation, restaurants and pubs, stunning scenery and endless tourist attractions - it's the perfect events venue.
See a world famous rock star, race a yacht or walk the Wight, then take time out to explore, drink, eat and relax.
And it's easy to see why outdoor activities like walking, cycling and sailing are so popular on this small Island of the Isle of Wight; it has over 500 miles of footpaths, around 30 miles of Heritage Coastline while more than half the Island is recognised as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty
Throughout 2007, see some of the top bands and artists perform at a range of distinct Island music events: The Isle of Wight International Jazz (Divas) Festival in April, The Isle of Wight Festival in June,the Osborne House Classical Concert in July, The Bestival, the hippy happening of the year, in September and the Isle of Wight Folk & Blues Festival also in September.
Visitors can find their sea legs with free 'Try Sailing' taster sessions available during Skandia Cowes Week in August as well as free 'have a go' surfing sessions at the White Air Extreme Sports Festival in August.
Throughout the year, the Island is alive with local carnival celebrations, confirming its reputation as England's carnival island.
Savour the flavour of home grown fruit and vegetables, freshly caught seafood and local wines, beer and cider in Isle of Wight restaurants.
Every town and village has a variety of establishments offering menus to tempt you, what all you have to do is choose from romantic restaurants, fashionable bistros or historic inns.
Enjoy the best of pub grub, along with excellent locally brewed beers, or dine in style at restaurants where local ingredients are turned into a gourmet experience accompanied by fine wines from local vineyards.
A selection of pubs, restaurants and tearooms have been chosen to participate in a new Quality Award scheme for the Island which assess their overall quality of food and service.
Assessors paid particular attention to the quality and presentation of food, enthusiastic and friendly service and high standards of cleanliness.
The assessment criteria covers six "quality areas" food, service & efficiency, hospitality, bar & restaurant, cleanliness and public areas, the performance of each establishment within these areas combines to give an overall quality score.
If it's an outdoor activity holiday you're looking for, the Isle of Wight has an A-Z list of activities, sports and outdoor adventures, some laid back, others that will set your heart racing .
Whether you are experienced or fancy learning a new challenge from tree climbing or paragliding to Llama treks, the Isle of Wight will have something to offer you.
Our sports and leisure facilities are second to none, so whether it's for you and some friends or for that tailored, team building exercise the Island is ideal for an activity break in the UK.
The visiting angler is very well catered for on the Isle of Wight with 64 miles of coastline available for sea fishing or for the Freshwater angler there are many ponds, reservoirs and streams. 
For the keen sailor why not charter a boat or just take a cruise or catch up with fellow yachtsmen at one of our many sailing clubs.
Let breathtaking views and fresh sea air carry you through your round, which can be energetic or easy-going - just as you choose.
Majestic sea cliffs and sweeping beaches; the quiet solitude of ancient woodlands; an ever changing patchwork of worked fields; the timeless and enduring prescence of the downs: intricate inlets of tranquil creeks; long distance views from the coastal heath and downland; winding paths; shutes and hollow ways in the countryside; Chines and steps down cliffs to miles of beaches; all make the landscape a perfect place for birdwatching
The beauty and varied landscape of the Isle of Wight has long been an inspiration to artists and makers.
There are individual craft outlets and galleries for you to visit and enjoy, selling just about everything from handcrafted jewellery and pottery to sculptured glass and contemporary art.
Well known high street stores, individual boutiques, antique and craft markets - whatever your preference, there's something to please all tastes.
Most of the famous high street stores, bars and restaurants can be found in Newport, the Island's main town, located in the centre of the Island.
The atmospheric farmers' market takes place on Fridays, in St Thomas' Square. Simply stroll around the stalls selling wonderful local produce including, meats, cheeses and honey.
The Island's garden centres offer a fantastic wet weather alternative with a wide selection of gifts for those green-fingered friends and well as items to adorn your home. 
Discover the range of produce from wines and ciders to garlic, asparagus, tomatoes on the vine, bacon and dairy produce.
The Garlic Farm at Newchurch will sell you everything to spice up your picnic and your kitchen including pickles, chutneys and garlic bread made from flour from Calbourne Water Mill.
Wide and busy Union Street in Ryde is just one example of an Island teeming with clothes, fashion and jewellery shops and has a delightful Victorian Arcade - The Royal Victoria - lined with shops selling books and curios, as well as an underground market - a veritable 'Aladdin's Cave' for bargain hunters.
So you've shopped till you've dropped, probably enjoyed a good pub lunch and are ready for some relaxation.
What better way than pampering yourself whilst the rest of the family visit a local attraction or play on the beach? 
The Island is one of the few places in the UK where the small, family retailer still has a foothold, able to offer customers a more personalised shopping experience - particularly home, music, photography, toys and shops selling the latest electronic gadgetry.