The Grand Canyon State or Copper State, Arizona takes its name from the Indian word Arizonac, meaning "little spring" or "young spring".
Arizona’s clean, clear, dry air and warm weather attracts older people looking for a retirement home as well as people with respiratory health problems.
The state’s population has tripled in the last thirty years.
Today, one out of three Arizonans live in booming Phoenix and Tucson.
National Parks & Monuments in Arizona include Canyon de Chelly, Casa Grande Ruins, Chiricahua, Hohokam Pima, Montezuma Castle, Navajo, Organ Pipe, Petrified Forest, Pipe Spring, Rainbow, Saguaro/Sunset Crater, Tonto, Tuzigoot, Walnut Canyon, Wupatki, Saguaro, Grand Canyon, and Petrified Forest.
Arizona was the scene of some of the last and fiercest fighting of the Indian wars.
Born near the headwaters of Arizona’s Gila River in the mid 1820s, Goyathlay ('One Who Yawns') was a peaceful man who was transformed into a warrior when his family was massacred by Mexicans.
During a charge against his enemies, frightened Mexicans began to scream 'Geronimo!' the name of their patron saint (Jerome, in English). Goyathlay’s men began calling him Geronimo.
Cochise also developed a hatred of Americans after they killed members of his family. Cochise, Geronimo, and Mangas Coloradas became three of the most famous Indian warriors.
While the Civil War was beginning far away to the east, Cochise, Geronimo, and Mangas Coloradas were attacking travelers and soldiers and raiding stagecoaches, ranches, and small settlements in the Southwest and Mexico.
Pursued by thousands of U.S. and Mexican soldiers, Cochise finally surrendered in 1872, Geronimo in 1886.
Today, Arizona is home to one of the largest Indian populations in the U.S., with twenty reservations hosting more than fourteen tribes, including Navaho, Mohave, Apache.
The region was ruled by Spain until Mexico won its independence in 1821 and then Mexico ruled it until 1848
Acquired by U.S.: The territory north of the Gila River was ceded to the U.S. in 1848, when the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the Mexican War.
Later, the U.S. wanted to build a railroad through the area south of the Gila River and purchased the area between the river and the southern boundary of Arizona from Mexico .
Arizona was made a separate territory in 1863, and more lands were acquired through the Gadsden Purchase in 1853.
Beehive State, Mormon State, Land of the Saints, Salt Lake State, Utah was named either for the Ute tribe, whose name means 'people of the mountains' or the the Navajo, who the White Mountain Apache referred to as 'Yuttahih'.
National Parks & Monuments of Utah are Arches, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Capitol Reef, Zion, Cedar Breaks, Dinosaur, 
Fleeing the religious persecution encountered in eastern and middle-western states, the Mormons reached the Great Salt Lake in 1847 and began to build Salt Lake City.
The U.S. acquired the Utah region in the treaty ending the Mexican War in 1848 .
Most Asians and blacks lived in metropolitan areas; many of the Native Americans, mostly of the Navajo, Ute, Gosiute, or Shoshone peoples, live on reservation land.
The large Uintah and Ouray Reservation lies entirely within Utah, and portions of the Navajo and Ute Mountain reservations extend into the state.
Big Sky Country, Bonanza State and Treasure State, Montana is a Latinized Spanish word meaning "mountainous".
On January 23, 1916, residents of Browning saw the temperature plummet exactly 100 degrees, from 44 degrees above zero to 56 degrees below zero.
The climate is dry, and cold spells are frequently interrupted by Chinook winds that can raise temperatures dramatically in a few hours. 
Montana's scenic beauty and vast empty spaces have made tourism the second biggest industry.
Native Americans inhabited Montana when Europeans first explored it includes the Sioux, Cheyenne, Blackfoot, Shoshone, Arapaho, Kootenai, and the Flathead.
The Battle of the Little Bighorn, probably the most famous battle of all of North America's "Indian wars," was fought in southeastern Montana in 1876.
The Lewis & Clark expedition crossed Montana in 1805 on their historic trek to the Pacific Ocean.
FranJois Antoine Laroque and his North West Company of Canada explored the Yellowstone River in 1805.
The first trading post in Montana was established at the mouth of the Bighorn in 1807 by a trading expedition that Manuel Lisa led up the Missouri from St. Louis.
Much of the region was acquired by the U.S. from France as part of the Louisiana Purchase in 1803.
The Oregon Treaty signed with Great Britain on June 15, 1846 gave the United States sole claim to Oregon country south of the 49th parallel, which included the present states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and northwestern Montana.
The Montana Territory became the 41st State to unite under America on November 8, 1889.
The steady stream of hopeful prospectors from the East and Midwest increased the number to 20,595 in 1870, the year of the first census.
Later the silver and copper mines drew Irish, Cornish, and many other immigrants to Butte.
With the settlement of the eastern section by northern European and Slavic groups, most parts of the state were occupied and the population reached 548,889 in 1920.
Cowboy State, Equality State, Big Sky, Wyoming was named from two Delaware Indian words mecheweamiing, which are translated 'at the big flats' (large plains).
The Crow hunted the lush grasslands of northeastern Wyoming until they were pushed westward into the mountains by the Sioux.
The Sioux and other tribes were greatly troubled by the increasing numbers of explorers and settlers who entered the region after the Civil War, especially after the opening of the Bozeman Trail in 1864.
French trappers and explorers may have reached the area in the middle to late 18th century.
The first documented visit was by a U.S. citizen and fur trapper, John Colter, who passed through Montana with the Lewis and Clark expedition, then returned to explore the Yellowstone country in 1807.
The overland party crossed through Teton Pass in 1811 en route to found Astoria, Oregon.
Robert Stuart returned from Astoria and pioneered the Oregon Trail through Wyoming in 1812-13.
Brigham Young led the first party of Mormons across Wyoming in 1847, and thousands of people crossed Wyoming’s mountain passes as part of the California gold rush of 1849.
Portions of what is now Wyoming were at one time claimed by Spain, France, and England, though none of them established much of a presence there.
The Evergreen State, Washington was named by for President George Washington by an eastern politician.
The Pacific Ocean moderates Western Washington's climate, which is generally mild, with rainy winters and little snow in the lowlands.
Eastern Washington gets much hotter in summer and colder in winter.
Two of the most important elements encouraging European exploration of the Northwest were competition between European nations and the search for the Northwest Passage, an inland water route linking the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
The Spanish and the English were the first to venture up the northwest coast of the Pacific Ocean.
Spain, which had become the wealthiest European nation during the 16th century, saw its wealth decline during the 17th century.
Spaniards hoped to reestablish themselves through exploration of the Northwest. In 1775 Spaniards Bruno Heceta and Juan de la Bodega y Quadra sent an expedition to near present-day Point Grenville and claimed the land in the name of the king of Spain.
In 1778 British explorer Captain James Cook charted the Washington coast and went ashore on Vancouver Island at Nootka Sound.
Since both the British and Spanish claimed land in the area, relations between the two countries became tense so, in order to avoid a war, they agreed to respect each other's commercial activities and settlements in the region.
In 1792 Captain George Vancouver of Britain became the first European to complete a detailed survey of the Washington coast and the inland waters.
Vancouver named many Washington landmarks, including Mount Rainier, Mount Baker, and many of the San Juan Islands.
Vancouver named Puget Sound after the officer who first sighted it, Peter Puget.
Also in 1792, as Vancouver charted the Washington coast and inland waters, American captain Robert Gray, a fur trader from Boston, explored the mouth of the Columbia River.
After the United States acquired the Louisiana Territory from France in 1803, President Thomas Jefferson commissioned explorers Meriwether Lewis and William Clark to explore the West .
The two explorers, instructed to take special note of the geography and vegetation of the West, traveled down the Columbia River and reached the Pacific Coast in 1805.
Washington contains more than 20 Native American reservations, including one of the largest in the country, belonging to the Yakama peoples. Other Native American groups are the Pend d'Oreille (Kalispel), Spokane, and Makah.
Central Kalimantan is one of the biggest Provinces in Indonesia with area total 153564 km2 or one-third from total Kalimantan Island.
The central area of Central Kalimantan is dense and fertile tropical forest, producing valuable commodities such as rattan, resin and the best woods.
Central Sulawesi Province is beautiful region with its mountain; lakes and dales decorate this area.
The fascination of main tourism in Central Sulawesi is megalith omission area of historic epoch, which stay in Bada and Besoa, however the natural beauty and sociability of its public become valuable asset for the tourism expansion in this area.
Central Sulawesi is one of regional in Indonesia that has compatible solidarity between natural beauties, cultural properties and long history.
Central Sulawesi Province being formed with the constitution number 13 in 1964 laying between 2022' North Latitude and 3048' South Latitude and 119022' East Longitudes.
Administratively, Central Sulawesi Province divided into eight regencies and one town with 85 Districts dan1432 village with number of residents' 2.215.449 men and density of average level is 29 men/Km2.
While the resident of Central Sulawesi Province who resided in settlement area of hinterland is 30% coastal area is 60% and archipelago area is 10%.
East Kalimantan is the widest province in Indonesia, broadly region is about 245237,80 Km2 or about one a half point of Java Island and Madura or 11 % from Indonesia region wide total
East Kalimantan Resident in 2004 amount to 2.750.369 men in 2005 East Kalimantan residents is predicted amount to 2,8 million men.
East Java is located on the eastern part of Java Island and also includes Madura and Bawean islands.
East Java has a variety of attractions, from temple sites to scenic beaches, a sand-sea, highland-lakes, volcanoes, marine gardens and wildlife reserves.
Magnificent mountain scenery include the crater and sea of sand at Mount Bromo, the "sulfur mountain" Welirang and rugged lien Plateau.
Little of the former glory of Majapahit Empire, still stands in East Java to day with the exception of temple ruins and some archaeological discoveries.
East Java's claim to fame in modern history is its vanguard role in the struggle for independence against colonial forces in 1945.
The administrative center of East Java is located in Surabaya, the second largest city in Indonesia and a major industrial center and port.
East Java's economy is based on agriculture, fishery, oil industries, coffee, mangoes and apples.
Connected with the rest of Java by good motor roads and train services, there are also air services between Surabaya and other major cities in the country.
Madura Island, famous for its bull races, is part of the province of East Java, though it has its own traditions and language.
Fossilized remains of prehistoric animals and the site of the Java man at Trinil, Ngawi, will tantalize the archaeologist, as well as numerous temple ruins dating from the 7th century AD.
The wide of East Java area is 47,921 sq km. Two thirds of the area is mountainous with approximately 48 mountains.
The highest peak, Mount Semeru is the highest in Java while the Brantas (314 km) and Bengawan Solo (540 km) are the two big rivers.
East Java is located between 5o 37' and 8o 48' South Latitude and between 110o 54' and 115o 57' East Longitude.
East Java's topical climate means that October to April is the wet season, and May to September is the dry season with an average temperature of 20-30 C but the rainfall in East Java is relatively low, on average of 2,000 mm per year. 
East Java province consists of various communities such as Javanese and Maduranese with their culture, tradition and customs.
Angklung: An ensemble of bamboo instruments quite popular in Banyuwangi.
Gandrung Dance: A classical dance dedicated to Dewi Sri, the goddess of rice also popular in Banyuwangi as well.
Bull Race (Karapan Sapi): a regular attraction at the stadium of Pamekasan, Madura.
Labuhan Sesaji: a thanksgiving ceremony held by fishermen of Muncar, Banyuwangi, and Suro.
Reyog Trance Dance: traditional Ponorogo dance with 15 dancers wearing peacock-feather headdresses and tiger mask.
Tayub Dance: a popular social dance from Nganjuk, 120 km southwest of Surabaya. 
East Nusa Tenggara Islands have been shaped by the power and force of an enormous chain of mountains and volcanoes, which begins from the North of Sumatra and stretches east across Java.
The East Nusa Tenggara province consists of over 550 islands, but is dominated by the three main islands of Flores, Sumba, and Timor.
Occupying a unique position at the junction of Australian and Asian submarine ridges marked by the Wallace Line, East Nusa Tenggara is one the world's most dynamic and exotic marine environments with nearly every species of coral and tropical fish represented.
The arid landscape of eastern and southeastern Nusa Tenggara is the result of hot, dry winds blasting in from the Australian continent
Flores is a Portuguese name, which means 'flower' and ideally describes the beauty to be found here.
This long island between Sumbawa and Timor is crowded with volcanoes and mountains dividing it into several distinct regions with individual languages and traditions.
Predominantly Catholic and heavily influenced by the Portuguese, there are many examples of a strong European cultural heritage like eastern procession held in Larantuka, and the royal regalia of the former king in Maumere.