History is alive and throbbing in Delhi, the capital of India. 
Jaipur is 260 km from Delhi and 240 km from Agra and forms the most chosen tourism golden triangle of Delhi, Agra and Jaipur.
Delhi is a bustling capital city and a business centre with all the trapping of modern metropolis but yet flavored strongly with an age old charm that never fails to surprise a traveler.
A long line of picturesque ghats with their steps leading to the water's edge, arched gateways and temple spires extending along the right bank of the River Yamuna, emphasis the sacred character of the town of Mathura.
The birth place of Lord Krishna, "the best known, best loved and most complex of Lord Vishnu's manifestations" Mathura is today an important place of pilgrimage.
What is comparatively a matter of detail is that Vrindavan is believed to have been the stage on which Krishna performed his famous romantic and sportive roles.
Vrindavan seems perpetually to be dreaming and imaginatively, reliving its romantic past.
Bharatpur bird sanctuary, magnificent bird haven is actual came into being paradoxically as a duck shooting preserve for Maharaja Suraj Mull of Bharatpur.
Flooding of water created shallow wetland ecosystem causing Bharatpur bird sanctuary to be a perfect habitat for an astounding variety of birds.
Steeped in the splendor of its past, the ancient capital of Gwalior has yet made a successful transition into a modern Indian city, vibrant and bustling.
A multitude of reigning dynasties, of the great Rajput clans of the Pratiharas, Kacchwahas and Tomars have left indelible etchings of their rule in this city of palaces, temples and monuments.
Fatehpur Sikri was built by the Mughal Emperor Akbar during 1564 A .D.
When Akbar’s was son was born, he is gratitude, constructed his capital city and named it Fatehpur Sikri.
The beautiful marvel tomb of Sheikh Salim Chishti still attracts thousands who seek blessings of the revered saint.
Fatehpur Sikri is about 39 km from Agra. 
Among its much architectural game are the places for his queens Jodha Bai, Mariyam and his Turkish sultana, built in varying styles, each perfect in it.
The DiwaneKhas entirely unique in its concept is a tall vaulted room with an intricately carved central pillar and capital supporting a platform that once held the emperor's throne.
Set like a jewel in a courtyard of pink sandstone is the finest building here, the marble tomb of Salim Chisti enclosed by finely carved, lacy marble screens. 
The Buland Darwaza, an imposing gateway 54 m high was built to commemorate Akbar's Aligarh the famous university town is a center of Islamic studies.
Aligarh city is also noted for its handicrafts and metal wares.
One needs prior permission form the secretary to visit the palace.
A magnificent royal palace and the hunting lodge built by Maharaja Vinay Singh in 1845 A .D. for his queen Shila stands overlooking the lake.
An ideal picnic spot with enhancing landscape of wooded hills and beautiful chhatris on the embankment of the 10. 5sqkm placid lake.
Lake offers boating and sailing facilities and is a delight for the trigger happy photographs and film makers.
A beautiful artificial lake constructed by maharaja jai singh in 1910A .D. is a popular spot for outings and picnics.
Apart from its long history, the Alwar city has a rich natural heritage with some beautiful lakes and picturesque valleys thickly wooded in parts.
Alwar has one of the finest wild life sanctuaries in Rajasthan Sariska, which is an excellent tiger country.
Alwar is nested between clusters of small hills of the Aravalli range.
An 18th century palaces harmoniously blending the Rajput and the Mughals styles of architecture.
A rich collection of the Indian armory is among other exhibits of the museum Behind the city palace is an artificial lake built in 1815 A .D. by Maharaj Vinay Singh with few temples along its banks.
A marvelous chhatri with unusual Bengali roof and arches, also known as the Moosi Maharani Ki Chhatri is situated in this area.
A picturesque garden laid out during the reign of Maharaja Shiv Dan Singh in 1868 A,D, the garden has an enchanting setting called Shimla which was built by Maharaja Mangal Singh and the cool shades make it the idyllic visiting spot during summers.
Situated midway between India and Burma, in the Bay of Bangal, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization.
Indian legend traces the name Andaman to a derivation of Handuman or Hanuman the Monkey God of the epic Ramayana, who is said to have used these islands as stepping stones on his way to Sri Lanka, to save Goddess Sita, consort of Lord Rama.
Later, after the First War of Independence in 1857 the British established a penal colony here and Andamans and Port Blair, the capital, came to be a dreaded word.
For, known as 'Kala Pani' of 'Black Water', the city was the site of the Cellular Jail a panel colony where political prisoners were banished, perhaps never to be seen again.
The islands are now fast becoming an attractive holiday destination for the anthropologist and the beach lover.
Dense rain forests and canopies of luxuriant green branches host a variety of birds, insects, and all kind of life.
The water is clear and beautiful, and the beaches at Corbyn's Cove, Wandoor, Jolly Boy and Cinque offer an excellent sea for swimming.
Tourists can surf, ski, scuba dive, snorkel, sail, and fish or just enjoy the sea, the sun and the sand.
For the more adventurous, deep sea diving unfolds precious treasures of corals, vegetation, sponges and fish life.
The Islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves, and the local huts which are built on stilts.
Viper Island is a small island just at the harbor, and was infamous for being a prison for convicts.
A small museum displays photographs and other antiques of the Britishers, relevant to these islands.
The Andaman and Nicobar Islands were shrouded in mystery for centuries because of their inaccessibility.
These Andaman and Nicobar Islands are the paragon of beauty and present a landscape full with scenic and picturesque extravaganza.
These Andaman and Nicobar Islands shimmer like emeralds in the Bay of Bengal.
The dense forest which cover these islands and the innumerable exotic flowers and birds create a highly poetic and romantic atmosphere.
"Here the white beaches on the edge of a meandering coastline have palm trees that sway to the rhythm of the Sea.
"The scenic beauty of Andaman & Nicobar Islands would create a sense of dissatisfaction and the human mind would rebel against "the whole mass of the motley facts of life".
The unparalleled beauty of these islands, create in men a love of nature with a caressing tenderness, a wistful fondness for all its delicate nuances.
The enveloping atmosphere with its subtle harmonies of light and shade, fragrance and exhales the paradise, visionary splendors, and the music of the birds that defies definition would develop creative and constructive feelings in the hearts of those people who come here to enjoy the beauty of nature. 
The Andaman and Nicobar Islands have great maritime importance.
During the British period political leaders considered dangerous to the interests of the Raj and other dreaded criminals were deported from mainland to the Cellular Jail the Indian Bastille, situated on the sea coast of Atlanta Point in the North Eastern part of Port Blair.
The Andaman & Nicobar are a group of picturesque Islands, big and small, inhabited and uninhabited, a total of 572 islands, islets and rocks lying in the South Eastern Part of the Bay of Bengal.
The flora and fauna of these islands, however, indicate that this land connection if it existed should have been prior to the development of their present life form Anthropological Museum.
Bangaram Island situated in the Bay of Bengal, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are still largely undiscovered by mass tourism.
There are a number of small islands around Port Blair which fall within the Marine National Park and are uninhabited and covered with virgin forests on them; daily excursion to various such islands takes one to beautiful secluded beaches.
The Marine life of corals and fish is rich and colorful and is a delight for snorkels.
Opened only recently to foreign tourists, the resort with its simple but attractive housing, have already become a circled spot in the brochures of tour operators all over. 
Cellular Jail, located at Port Blair, stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters, who were incarcerated in this Jail.
Cellular Jail, located at Port Blair, stood mute witness to the tortures meted out to the freedom fighters, who were incarcerated in this Jail.
This three storied prison, constructed by Britishers in 1906, is a pilgrimage destination for freedom fighters.
The Nicobar Islands are a chain of nineteen islands with car Nicobar as the Headquaters of the Nicobar District.
The Islands are flat and fertile and the main attractions are the thick coconut groves, and the local huts which are built on stilts.
The island offers a wide selection of handicrafts made from wood, fiber and sea shells.
Hotels, Resorts and Lodges etc to suit all budgets are available at Port Blair and some other places also.
Viper Island is a small island just at the harbor, and was infamous for being a prison for convicts.
This beautiful park at Port Blair has facilities like amusement rides, safe water sports, and nature trail around the lake, garden, restaurant and historic remains like Japanese Temple as well as a bunker.
The erstwhile Dilthaman tank, which was the only source of drinking water to Port Blair, and the area around it has been developed into Gandhi Park in an unbelievably short time of 13 days.
About 38 km from Port Blair, this Havelock island boasts of virgin beaches, and an unpolluted environment.
Indian Airlines has regular flights to Port Blair, from Calcutta and Chennai.
Situated midway between India and Burma, in the Bay of Bangal, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands were at one time inhabited by various tribes which strongly resisted any efforts at civilization.
Mahatma Gandhi Marine National Park at Wandoor is at a distance of 29 km from Port Blair, covering an area of 281. 5 sq km.
Designed by Lt Samuel Russel, the British Residency of Hyderabad was built in 1806 and is one of the best examples of European architecture in India.
Some Asaf Jahi palaces of the early period, like the Chow Mahalla was built in European style.
Secunderabad, which is part of Hyderabad, originally developed around a British Cantonment, set up in 1798.
Public buildings and churches in European style can be found in many other towns such as Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Vizianagaram, Machilipatnam and even Tirupati.
Cities of Andhra Pradesh have interesting examples of European architecture as well as domestic vernacular architecture.
Uppada, a beach town located 20 kms from Kakinada is famous for beautifully designed cotton sarees.
Andhra Pradesh has given the world a number of forms of performing arts, handlooms and curios.
Kalamkari, the art of dyeing with vegetable oils and colors, still flourishes and silk sarees woven in the state rank among the most beautiful in the world.
Kuchipudi, the indigenous style of dance of Andhra Pradesh, was born in the village of Kuchelapuri or Kuchelapuram, from which it takes its name.
In Nirmal town, Adilabad district of Andhra Pradesh, there is a concentration of craftsmen known as Nakash, whose traditional art is painting scenes from the Hindu epics Mahabharata and Ramayana.
Chandavaram is located on the right bank of the river Gundla Kamma in Pakasam district.
There is a very interesting stupa constructed on elevated terrace which is the first of its kind in Andhra Pradesh.
The Buddhist ruins are located on the contiguous hills locally known as Bojjanakonda and Lingalametta consist of numerous monolithic stupas, caves and structural buildings.
The Buddha statue has been placed on the rock of Gibraltar in the placid waters of the Hussain Sagar.
Hyderbad, being Capital city is well conected by Road from all major cities in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Maharastra and Orissa.
The temple of Goddess Saraswathi, the one and only temple of this deity in South India, located at Basar is a famous pilgrim place.
Vemana Samadhi is a famous tourist place in this district.
Historically Famous Palnadu War and first and foremost Tax non cooperation Movement in 1921 were the happenings in this district.
The Adilabad district is bounded by Maharastra State in the East, West and North directions, Karimnagar and Nizamabad districts in the South direction.
Lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd Friday to Sunday of December every year at Hyderabad and Nagarjunasagar to highlight.
Pongal was originally a festival for the farming community, but today it has become one of South India's most popular festivals.
Lumbini festival is organized from the 2nd Friday to Sunday of December every year at Hyderabad and Nagarjunasagar to highlight and celebrate the ‘Buddhist Heritage' of Andhra Pradesh.
A spectacular view of the city may be had from the roof of the Charminar, although, due to severe overcrowding of the minarets, only visitors with special permission from the Archaeological Survey of India, Hyderabad Circle are allowed to go to the top of the minarets.
Falaknuma palace is a masterpiece designed by an Italian architect.
Hyderabad Golconda is one of the famous forts of India; the name originates from the Telugu words "Golla Konda" meaning "Shepherd's Hill".
The Golconda fort is famous for its acoustics, palaces, factories, ingenious water supply system and the famous Fateh Rahben gun, one of the cannons used in the last siege of Golconda by Aurangzeb, to whom the fort ultimately fell.