Jaipur, popularly known as the Pink City, is the capital of Rajasthan state, India.
The city is famous for its majestic forts, palaces and beautiful lakes which attract tourists from all over world.
The city palace was built by Maharaja Jai Singh II and is a synthesis of Mughal & Rajasthani architecture.
Hawa mahal was built by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh in 1799 AD and Lal Chand Usta was the architect.
The Amber fort complex has several apartments with palaces, halls, stairways, pillared pavilions, gardens & temples.
Amber palace is a classic example of Mughal & Hindu architecture.
Government Central Museum was constructed in 1876 when Prince of Wales has visited India and opened to public in 1886.
Government Central Museum has a rich collection of ivory work, textiles, jewellery, carved wooden objects, miniature paintings, marble statues, arms and weapons.
Sisodiya Rani-Ka-Bagh was built by Sawai Jai Singh II for his Sisodiya Queen.
The Jal Mahal is a picturesque palace built for royal duck shooting parties.
Kanak Vrindavan is a popular picnic spot in Jaipur.
Jaipur bazaars are vibrant and the shops are full with colorful items which include - handicraft items, precious stones, textiles, Minakari items, jewellery, Rajasthani paintings, etc.
Jaipur is also famous for marble statues, blue pottery and the Rajasthani shoes.
The main markets of Jaipur, from where you can buy some useful items are along Jauhari Bazar, Bapu Bazar, Nehru Bazar, Chaura Rasta, Tripolia Bazar and M.I. Raod.
The best time to visit Jaipur city is in between October to March.
Rajasthan State Transport Corporation (RSTC) has bus services to all the major destinations of north India.
Bharatpur, the 'gateway to eastern Rajasthan' acquires its own importance in the tourist map of India.
A major tourist destination in the Indian map today, Bharatpur has gone through several stages since the 5th century BCE.
The 18th century Bharatpur Bird Sanctuary, which is also known as the Keoladeo Ghana National park.
The 18th century Bharatpur Bird Sancttuary, which is also known as the Keoladeo Ghana National park, is famous as the most important bird breeding and feeding habitat of the world.
Lohagarh is also known as the Iron fort, Lohagarh is one of the major historical attractions of Bharatpur.
The Bharatpur museum is a major source to have a date with the past royal glory of the place.
A beautiful garden, the Nehru Park, lies close to the Bharatpur museum.
The Nehru park is full of colorful flowers and green grass lawn, attracts the visitors with its exquisite beauty.
The Deeg Palace is a strong and massive fort, which acted as the summer resort for the rulers of Bharatpur.
The best time to visit Bharatpur is during the months of October, November, February and March.
One can take up several means of transportation like taxis, cycle-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws to move from one place to another in Bharatpur.
Centrally located in the western part of the state Rajasthan, the Jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces, forts & temples, worth visiting.
Centrally located in the western part of the state Rajasthan, the Jodhpur city is the second largest city of the state and is a popular tourist destination offering palaces, forts & temples, worth visiting.
The economy of the city depends on several industries including handicraft, textiles & some metal based industries.
Located at the heart of the desert, this city of Rajasthan is the majestic jewel of Rajasthan's eternal crown.
Jodhpur, called the Land of the Dead, was founded by Rao Jodha, the chief of a clan known as the Rathores in 1459.
Mehrangarh Fort is one of the largest forts in India, situated on a hill top of 125m and spread over an area of 5km.
There are several decorated palaces like Moti Mahal, Phool Mahal, Sheesh Mahal are located inside the Mehrangarh Fort.
Also the museum inside the Mehrangarh Fort has a rich collection of miniatures, musical instruments, costumes, armoury etc.
Mehrangarh Fort has seven gates and provides wonderful views of the city.
Umaid Bhawn Place is built up of red sandstone & marble and it took almost 16 years from 1929 to 1943 under the supervision of Maharaja Umaid Singh.
Jaswant Thada is a white marble monument was built in 1899 in the memory of Maharaja Jaswant Singh II.
There are some portraits of the rulers of Jodhpur also displayed at Jaswant Thada.
Government Museum is located in the middle of the Umaid garden and has a rich collection of weapons, textiles, paintings, manuscripts, portraits, local art & crafts.
Balsamand Lake & Palace is an artificial lake is a splendid picnic spot and was built in 1159 AD.
The Marwar is the main festival takes place in the month October.
Jodhpur is known for its wooden & iron furniture, traditional jodhpuri handicrafts, dye textiles, leather shoes, antiques, embroidered shoes carpets, Tie & Dye Sarees, silver jewellery, local handicrafts & textiles, lac work and bangles are few items which you can buy from Jodhpur.
The Central Market, Sojati Gate, Station Road, Sardar Market, Tripollia Bazaar, Mochi Bazaar, Lakhera Bazar are some of the best shopping place in Jodhpur.
October to March is the best time to visit the Jaipur city.
Unmetered taxis, auto:rikshaws, tempos and cycle rikshaws are the main mode of transportation within the Jodhpur city.
Jodhpur has its own airport which is connected to Jaipur, Delhi, Udaipur, Mumbai and some other major cities.
The Jodhpur city is directly connected by meter gauge railway lines which links it with the major destinations within & outside Rajasthan.
Jaisalmer is known for the typical desert type climate with hot and scorchy summer and cold and freezing winters.
October to February is considered to be the best period to visit Jaisalmer.
Located at a distance of 16 km from Jaisalmer, Lodurva was ancient capital of Jaisalmer.
One of the famous excursion sites located on the outskirts of Jaisalmer, Lodurva is known for the famous Jain temple that attracts huge number of pilgrimage throughout the year.
The main attraction of the Jain temple is a divine tree called as 'Kalptaru' and the famous carvings and dome add extra charm to the temple.
Wood Fossil Park is one of the best excursion sites available in the surroundings of Jaisalmer.
Famous for the million year old fossils, the Wood Fossil park is a geological landmark of the Thar Desert, Jaisalmer.
The beauty of Thar Desert is best described with the help of Sam Sand Dunes, located at a distance of 42 km from Jaisalmer.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the best nature's gift to the human beings.
Hundreds and thousands of visitors come to Rajasthan to witness Sam Sand Dunes's wonderful artistic view of the nature and the place can be best covered with the help of camel safari.
45 km away from the desert city of Jaisalmer, Desert Natinal Park is known for the sand dunes and scrub covered hills.
The best excursion site, Desert National Park is famous for the black buck, chinkara, desert fox and the great Indian bustard.
One of the best havelis of Jaisalmer, Amar Sagar is known for the carved pillars and extensive corridors and chambers.
Constructed in the pattern of apartments, the Amar Sagar haveli is a five story high haveli adorned with beautiful painted murals.
Udaipur is the historic capital of former kingdom of Mewar and now the administrative headquarters of Udaipur districts.
Udaipur, the city of lakes and palaces are surrounded by lush green Aravali range and crystal clear water lake.
A perfect combination of romance and beauty, Udaipur could be the first choice for the imagination of painters, poets and writers.
Udaipur is situated in the southern part of Rajasthan and surrounded by the Aravalli range.
Udaipur is known for its beautiful lakes, well structured palaces, lush green gardens and temples but the major attractions of this place are the Lake Palace and the City Palace.
City Palace is situated on the banks of Lake Pichola, a magnificant and inspiring citadel designed with the help of mirror and glass works.
A perfect combination of arts and design,City palace is known for its advancement in technology and architecture.
A part of City Palace is now converted into a museum that displays some of the best forms of art and culture.
Udaipur is blessed with many added attractions and natural beauty, one of the famous city of Rajasthan known for its excellent architecture and handicrafts.
Jag Mandir, Fateh Prakash Palace, Crystal Gallery and Shilpagram are some of the best monuments and sites situated in the surroundings of the Udaipur.
Jag Mandir is an island palace located in Pichola Lake, constructed by Maharana Karan Singh for the hideout of prince hurram.
Jag Mandir is also known for its beautiful gardens, courtyard and carved "Chhatri" presented in grey and blue stone.
Fateh Prakash Palace is a perfect example of luxury and style that states Udaipur as a city of royal hospitalilty and culture.
Shilpagram is designed on the concept of village with little emphasis on the modern concept.
A perfect blend of arts, culture and craft is presented in Shilpgram and known for its terracotta work mainly done in dark brown and dark red sand material.
Mewar festival is one of the important festival of Udaipur and held every year in the month of April.
Shopping in Udaipur is always a delightful experience and it displays excellent handicrafts and works developed by local traders.
The main markets of Udaipur are Palace Road, Hathi Pol, Bada Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and Chetak Circle. Rajasthali, is the approved emporium of the Rajasthan government.
September to March is the best season to visit Udaipur.
The royal city Bikaner has a timeless charm like no other.
This desert city of Rajasthan is famous for its attractions which include - forts, temples & Camel Festival. Known as the camel country, Bikaner is has also made a mark in industrial sector.
Best known to the world for its Bikaneri sweets & snacks, Bikaner's developing tourism industry also plays an important role in Raajsthan's economy.
Bikaner is also one major hub for the tourists looking for an adventurous Camel ride, which gives an insight into the exquisite lifestyle of remote Rajasthan.
There is a museum inside the Junagarh Fort which has collections of valuable antique objects.
The Lalgarh Palace was built by Maharaja Ganga Singh and is situated 3 km north of Bikaner city.
The Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) has converted a portion of Lalgarh Palace into a hotel.
There is also a library inside the Lalgarh palace which has a large collection of sanskrit manuscripts.
The Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary is 32 kms away from the Bikaner city and is home to several species of animals & birds.
The Bhandeshwar & Sandeshwar Temple were built by two brothers and are dedicated to Jain Teerthankar, Parsvanathji.
The mirror work and the gold leaf paintings are the major attractions of Bhandeshwar & Sandeshwar temples.
The Ganga Golden Jubilee Museum has a large collection of pottery, paintings, carpets, coins, and armory.
The Camel Festival is held in the month of January every year and is organized by the Department of Tourism, Art & Culture, and Rajasthan.
The famous Bikaneri Bhujias & sweets are some of the best items to purchase in Bikaner.
Best Month to Visit October to March is the best period to visit the city.
Mount Abu is the only hill station of Rajasthan situated at the southern tip of the Aravalli range.
During British rule Mount Abu became the favorite summer destination of the British.
Gaumukh Temple is dedicated to Lord Rama, this small temple is situated 4 kms south of Mount Abu, and derived its name from a natural spring flowing through the mouth of a marble cow.
Nakki Lake, is an artificial lake is located in the heart of the town and is surrounded by scenic hills, beautiful parks and is a must visit place.
First occupied by the French in 1764, the islands were quickly ceded to Spain, which then ruled the adjacent territory in Latin America.
However, the Spanish only established themselves on West Falkland and, in 1765; the British took control of the eastern island.
By 1816, both powers had removed their respective garrisons and the Falkland Islands had no permanent inhabitants.
A vessel from newly independent Argentina was sent in 1820 to establish a permanent settlement but was driven out by a British expedition in 1832.
The British declared full sovereignty over the Falkland Islands the following year.
Argentina refused to recognize British sovereignty and has maintained a consistent claim to sovereignty ever since.
This claim was pursued periodically through diplomatic channels until 1982, when an Argentine force overran the British garrison and established a military base on 'Islas Malvinas', a name derived from the original French settlers, who named the islands after their home port of St Malo.
After various attempts at negotiation and mediation had failed, a British task force, which had been dispatched at the start of the crisis, was ordered to continue its journey and engage the Argentines.
Argentina formally surrendered on 14 June, 10 weeks after the invasion.
In the subsequent contact between the two governments, it has become apparent that the issue of sovereignty is a stumbling block and that the Falkland Islands' issue will remain a key aspect of Argentine foreign policy in the foreseeable future.
The Falkland Islands are home to a plethora of marine life, from five different species of penguins to whales and sea birds that hover around Stanley Harbour.
Nineteenth-century shipwrecks await exploration, while battlefields in the 1982 conflict such as Goose Green and Pebble Island have become tourist attractions.French Guiana was discovered by the Spanish in 1496, who established a few settlements in 1503 and 1504.
The French first moved in a century later.
Numerous changes in control followed over the next 200 years, alternating between France, Britain, the Netherlands and Portugal, until the territory was finally confirmed as French in 1817.
The colony enjoyed a brief period of prosperity in the 1850s when gold was discovered, but afterwards went into a decline from which it has never fully recovered.
French Guiana was finally given French Overseas Department status in 1946, under which the territory effectively became an integral part of the French nation.
However, the territory was largely neglected by Paris and continued to deteriorate until civil unrest broke out in the 1970s.
After a security crackdown, the central government promised various improvements.
These failed to materialize until the Mitterrand presidency, under which a series of reforms was introduced in 1982-83.
Some decentralization also took place: local affairs are now dealt with by the Regional Council.
French Guiana has the benefit of an ideal geographical situation, set between the Caribbean and the Amazon.
Little wonder, then, that its environment is so rich.
Visitors may have the privilege of observing a great many protected species in carefully preserved areas.
French Guiana is also home to a colorful blend of different cultural backgrounds.
A native land, a land of exploration and a land of enslavement, the extraordinary history of French Guiana has left its traces in every sector of today's society and can still be sensed in a number of almost mythical places: Iles du Salut, which include the infamous Devil's Island where political prisoners were held, Mount Favard, the Saint-Laurent du Maroni transportation camp and the Iracoubo Church.
French Guiana is also a land of social progress and a symbol of modernity as is demonstrated in Kourou, the main French Space Centre.
From encounters with authentic cultures, to watching the birth of the leatherback turtles, from life as a convict in a penal colony to travelling by canoe down majestic rivers, from panning for gold to watching toucans fly or following the vapour trail of Ariane, French Guiana has a lot to offer.
When Columbus reached the northern coast of South America at the beginning of the 16th century, the area that is now Guyana was inhabited by two distinct groups, the Arawak who lived along the coast and the Carib who lived in the interior.
The Spanish were not attracted by the region, however, and it was the Dutch who first established a European presence around 1616.
At the heart of it was the trading post at the mouth of the Essequibo River, which was controlled, along with other posts established later on, by the Dutch West India Company.
The Dutch remained in undisputed control until the end of the 18th century when the outbreak of the Napoleonic Wars brought a period of turmoil during which the territory changed hands several times between the Dutch, British and French.
The British ultimately prevailed following the defeat of Napoleon in 1815.
The territory was then declared the colony of British Guiana, a status which it retained until independence in 1996.
After the abolition of slavery in 1834, the plantation owners imported laborers from India.
Indians now form the largest racial group, with most living in the agricultural areas, particularly around Demerara.
Other immigrants were Americans, Europeans (Portuguese, British and Dutch) and Chinese.
Guyana's attractions range from the 19th-century stilted wooden houses of its capital, Georgetown, to the awesome natural splendors of the towering Kaieteur Falls along the Potaro River, five times the height of Niagara.
The country's mixture of rainforests, beaches, savannah and rivers draws adventure tourists hoping to camp, trek, fish or perhaps be lucky enough to spot a jaguar.
Paraguay is a little known landlocked country, which has found itself somewhat isolated from even its neighbors in the past by geography and politics.
Since 1811, when it became independent, Paraguay has been governed mainly by dictatorships and has endured a number of costly wars against neighboring countries.
However, Paraguay has taken a number of steps to overcome its political, economic and geographic situation and is building a more welcoming image.
The country can boast many attractions: grassy plains and an untamed wilderness of marshes, lagoons, dense forests, jungles, national parks, Jesuit missions and the Chaco, one of South America's great wilderness areas.
The country will particularly appeal to travelers who have already been to larger, more varied South American destinations, but who are now ready to experience the more subtle attractions of the continent such as learning about the Guarani Indians, watching Nanduti lace being made or seeing a jaguar or alligator.
In addition, Paraguay boasts breathtaking waterfalls where the borders of Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina come together.
For all these reasons, Paraguay is definitely a country worth discovering.
Perhaps no other country has more to offer the visitor than Peru: panoramic mountain ranges, vast deserts, beautiful beaches and tropical jungle.
All this combined with rich historical and archaeological past and enduring indigenous cultures.
The indigenous Inca civilization of what is now Peru was conquered by Spain in the early 16th century.
Spain ruled the country until the early 19th century.
The wars of independence, which expelled the Spanish from virtually the entire South American continent, reached Peru in the early 1820s.
After the 1821 declaration of independence, Peru was challenged by the royalists.
The new government appealed to the revolutionary leader, Simon Bolivar, for assistance, which proceeded to defeat the royalists at the Battle of Ayacucho in December 1824, after which he became head of state.
Relations between Peru and its neighbors were difficult in the early years of independence.
There were border disputes with Brazil and Ecuador, and especially with Chile.
The War of the Pacific broke out between Peru and Chile in 1879, with a complete victory for Chile and the loss to Peru of some southern territories.
Internal problems dominated the agenda for the next 30 years, as a series of governments struggled to keep the economy, which was almost completely destroyed as a result of the Pacific War, from disintegrating.
The first of Peru's many military coups was in 1914.
The junta lasted five years, before giving way to the civilian government of Augusto Leguia.
His tenure ended with another military take-over.
While the military has always been a powerful force in Peruvian politics, its principal opponent and the country's largest political party for much of the 20th century was the Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana (APRA), founded by Dr Victor Raul Haya de la Torre in 1924, as a continent-wide anti-imperialist movement.
Although increasingly moderate and Peruvian-centered in its appeal, APRA has nevertheless been illegal for much of its history.
Politics has also persistently been dogged by alleged – and sometimes proven – corruption.
The 'war on drugs' has long dominated relations between Peru and the USA.
Border disputes have also arisen; the most serious of these was with Ecuador over access to the Amazonian river system and control of the potentially mineral-rich Condor mountain range.
In early 1995, full-scale fighting broke out after talks broke down, continuing intermittently until a settlement was reached in 1999.
Just as complex is Peru's topography: divided into the three main geographical zones of costa (coast); sierra (mountains); and selva (rainforest).
Such diverse landscape generates diverse pleasures; Peru successfully offers history, archaeology, sports, beaches, mountains, medicinal springs, nature, fantastic landscapes, friendly people and mesmeric music.
Ancient archaeological remains and Nazca Lines augment Peru's sense of mystery, of possessing an awesomeness of both humankind and nature.
Surinam is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, the Marowijne River, French Guiana and Brazil.
By the time the Spanish arrived in the late15th century, the Surinen (the original inhabitants of Surinam) had been driven out by other Amerindian groups.
Fierce resistance to colonization deterred most would-be occupiers from Europe, although the territory formally changed hands many times between the Dutch, English and French, before finally being confirmed as a Dutch possession by the terms of the 1815 Treaty of Vienna.
At this time, the majority of the population was slaves, working on the plantations.
Despite the abolition of slavery in 1863, conditions changed very little until the early 20th century and the discovery of large bauxite deposits, which brought about a major change in the economic - and consequently, political - complexion of the country.
In 1954, Surinam, with the Netherlands Antilles, became an autonomous region within the Kingdom of The Netherlands.
Full independence was achieved in 1975.
While the 17th-century capital, Paramaribo, with its attractive colonial architecture, is a good starting point for any visitor, Surinam's main attraction is its tropical rainforest, which covers nearly 80 per cent of the country and is home to a huge variety of wildlife. Known as the 'Oriental Republic' because of its location on the eastern bank of the Rio de la Plata, Uruguay is one of the smallest of the South American republics.
Parts of the territory which is now Uruguay were settled by the Spanish in the 1620s and the Portuguese in the 1680s; as a result, Uruguay became a major bone of contention between these rival European powers.
The Spanish prevailed in the early 18th century, after the establishment of a settlement at San Felipe de Montevideo (which eventually became the Uruguayan capital) in 1726.
The formal creation of the Uruguayan state took place in 1828.
Throughout much of this early 19th-century period, the future Uruguay was occupied by Portuguese troops from neighboring Brazil; interventions – military and otherwise – by its larger neighboring powers were to become a recurrent feature of Uruguay's political history.
The conjunction between internal and external forces became apparent during the Great War of 1843-52, which centered on the siege of Montevideo, then under Colorado control, by Blanco forces.
The war, which was eventually won by the Colorados, established the pattern whereby Argentina and Brazil became the guarantors of Uruguayan independence, with the intervention of global powers on occasion – Britain and France in the 19th century, the USA in the 20th century.
Today, the country's economic health still relies heavily on its two large neighbors and main trading partners.
Although the tourism industry only brings in under US$1 billion annually, Uruguay is drawing increasingly more visitors each year, and for good reasons.
The country enjoys 500km (300 miles) of fine sandy beaches on the Atlantic and the Río de la Plata, woods, hills, hot springs, hotels, casinos, art festivals and numerous opportunities for sport and entertainment.
Montevideo, the capital, contains more than half of Uruguay's population.
Located on the River Plate, which has been one of the essential elements for the development of the territory, Montevideo is also the country's natural trading centre.
It is a delight for lovers of culture.
Museums, theatres, exhibitions, shows, popular feasts.
There is an intense agenda all year round and the city itself is a collection of art and history.
Originally inhabited by Carib and Arawak Indians, Venezuela was claimed as a Spanish territory by Christopher Columbus in 1498.
Spanish rule was administered from a distance, leaving the various regions to develop separately from the capital, Caracas, which was founded by Diego de Losada in 1567.
In the 18th century, an attempt to inject a measure of unification by the Spanish was met with widespread resistance and uprisings led by Simón Bolívar (after whom the currency is named).
In 1830, Venezuela became a sovereign state, led by José Paéz.
Today's politics are dominated by President Hugo Chávez, the leader of a coup attempt in 1992, who formed his own party and, drawing on the support of millions of disaffected poor people, won the 1998 presidential election.
Despite attempts by the opposition to remove him, Chávez's position remains secure for now.
In the 2005 parliamentary elections, his party won a majority of seats in the National Assembly.
Venezuela offers a myriad of landscapes and experiences - tropical beaches, immense plains, enormous rivers, forests, jungle, waterfalls and great mountains.
The clear, warm waters of its Caribbean coastline are ideal for snorkeling and diving, while numerous islands off the coast invite visitors to explore.
The tropical lowlands hide a huge array of wildlife, lush vegetation and dramatic waterfalls, yet within the same country lie high Andean peaks, providing a challenge to trekkers and mountaineers.
The country is home to the world's highest waterfall, Angel Falls (about 16 times higher than Niagara Falls), and the world's longest and highest cable car, whisking tourists from the university town of Mérida to the 4765m- (15,629ft-) high Pico Espejo.
The capital, Caracas, boasts fine historical monuments, an excellent collection of museums and art galleries, and contrasting examples of old and new architecture.
Visitors to this country have the choice of a relaxing resort experience, a cultural city break or a wealth of adventurous activities.
Whether they wish to experience one, or all of the above, Venezuela has more than enough to offer on all counts. 
Almost 500 years on, the impact of Spanish conquistadores can be seen in the tall, ornate churches that crown the hillsides and plazas of Mexico's cities and whitewashed walls of haciendas.
But traces of earlier inhabitants remain in the remarkable temples and pyramids at Palenque and Teotihuacán, and in the traditions of dozens of indigenous cultures.
Accompanying it all are the subtle spices of Mexico's famous tortillas, tamales and enchiladas, washed down with bold red wines and heady tequila and mescal.
Mexico's earliest known civilization was the Holmic in the second century BC, a Mayan culture advanced in religion, architecture and mathematics, who reached their height between AD 600-900.
The Toltecs were the predominant civilization of this time.
Known for their fine architecture, elegant speech and intellectual pursuits, they were the ancestors of the famous Aztecs.
In 1519, a Spaniard named Hernan Cortés arrived from Cuba with a 550-strong crew.
The Aztec Empire controlled vast territories from the Yucatán peninsula to the Pacific, with over 370 individual nations under their authority.
Ruling from their capital city, Tenochtitlan, the Aztecs demanded heavy tribute from their subjects, which caused some to side with Cortés.
The other factor on Cortés' side was the lucky coincidence that 1519 was the exact year when legend had it that the Aztec god, Quetzalcoatl, would return from the east and so Cortés was mistaken for a god.
After two years of fighting, the Aztecs were defeated.
Mexico later achieved independence after the wars of 1810-21.
In Mexico City is the Plaza de las Tres Culturas, which celebrates the three major cultures that have shaped Mexico: there are Aztec ruins, the 17th-century colonial church of San Diego and several late 20th-century buildings.
Mexico's capital city is one of speeding VW taxis and bustling marketplaces, countered by colorful Aztec dancers and panaderías with freshly baked pastries.
Mexico City has a peculiar charm, possessing Mexico in microcosm: pollution and poverty intermingled with streets named after philosophers.
Mexico City itself provides a contrast with the country's arresting topography: its Sierra Madre mountains, volcanoes, national parks and beaches.
History comes to life in Mexico: the scars of recent history are still apparent.
In 1847, Mexico was forced to cede half of its territory to the USA.
In 1861, Benito Juárez was elected President and announced a two-year moratorium on the payment of foreign debts, causing a series of civil wars and conflicts with European and US Governments for the next 30 years.
Later came Porfirio D'az's dictatorship of 1876-1910, revolutions and coups, and the one-party state of the PRI until the mid-1970s.
Mexico's largely oil-based economy brought Mexico to the verge of bankruptcy in the 1970s/80s due to corruption and mismanagement, a collapse of oil prices, and political crisis.
Some areas of Mexico are, indeed, still blighted by crime and destitution.
But, for the most part, Mexico remains a fascinating amalgam of antiquity and forward-looking vigor.
This section includes basic facts on a number of the US External Territories: Baker & Howland Islands, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Palmyra and Wake Island.
For more information on these islands, contact a US Embassy; see USA section.
The following countries all have their own sections in the World Travel Guide.
American Samoa, Guam, US Virgin Islands.
For Palau and the Northern Mariana Islands, see the Pacific Islands of Micronesia section.
Mickey Mouse, Miami Vice, Sleepless in Seattle… thanks to cinema and TV we all have impressions of the United States of America.
Yet nothing can prepare you for your first glimpse of Manhattan's unforgettable skyline, your first ride in a yellow cab, the ubiquitous hamburger joints, the vast expanses of prairie, the sweet strains of New Orleans jazz or the neon-lit excesses of Las Vegas.
The USA is a huge country to explore, with 50 states to choose from, flanked by two oceans and covering an incredibly varied terrain.
For five centuries, since the 'New World' discoveries of Christopher Columbus.
There are opportunities for anglers in Bhalukpung in Assam, the river Jia Bhoroli, Kapili and Manas are the best places for Golden Mahseer angling since the days of the British.
The Jia Bhoroli of Assam has a long and glorious history of Mahseer angling The state of Himachal Pradesh with its many snowfed rivers are an angler's haven.
The upper reaches of the river Beas in the Kullu valley are also great for this sport.
The picturesque Kangra valley has several spots that offer mahaseer river carp.
In Kashmir, trout fishing is a lucrative business and the ideal season is from April to October.
The British introduced the brown and rainbow trout to the streams of Kashmir, where they have thrived.
Only artificial flies are allowed and each license entitles the angler to keep six fish a day, none being shorter than 7. 5 cm The common rivers for fishing here are Sindh & Wangat.
For those who love sailing, yachting and windsurfing, there are facilities in Goa as well as at Kovalam beach in Kerala.
Mumbai, too, has several opportunities for sailing and other water sports.
Camel safaris trace their origins to the time of trade between India and China, when camel caravans would journey along established trade routes laden with spices and herbs and jewels.
They provide an opportunity to get a glimpse of traditional Indian life in the desert, with all the hardships, the beauty and the desolation.
The accommodation on the way consists of primitive thatched mud huts, and the way of life though hospitable is entirely ethnic.
Camel safaris generally cover the area around Jaisalmer, Bikaner or Jodhpur, popularly known as the desert circuit.
The duration can vary between one day and two weeks.
Big towns are not usually on the route though there is no definite route that you have to adopt.
Route navigation in the desert is an acquired art, and caravans must be manned by riders who not only know how to study the stars, but also recognize the shifting sands of the terrain.
A camel safari is exciting, but is not exactly a relaxing vacation.
Unless you are accustomed to horse riding, a daylong camel ride will be tiring.
Even if you are accustomed to horse riding, since the gait of the camel is quite different, it may take some time to get used to it.
Keeping in your seat as the camel raises or lowers itself to the ground, can appear at first to be a losing battle.
However, whether tiring or relaxing, a camel safari is bound to be a unique experience.
Traverse the lonely stretches of the Thar Desert, like the travelers of old.
In fact, the most magical way to explore the sands of Rajasthan, especially the unending sand dunes of Jaisalmer and Bikaner, is on camel back.
Camp under the stars, listen to the haunting strains of folk music echoing across the sand dunes, stay at any of the many heritage resorts run by erstwhile royalty, marvel at the remote forts and palaces, or enjoy the gentle hospitality of villagers at an oasis.
India's camel safaris take you back in time to a more leisurely age, and make for a memorable experience.
One of the most popular deserts in India, the Thar region was once ruled by the Rapjuts.
These strong and powerful rulers built magnificent fortress palaces, of which the ruins are still visited.
The Thar is best experienced by camel safaris.
These leave from Khuri village.
All travelers and tourists are required to make this journey along with an experienced guide.
A historic building now turned hotel A modern day hotel.
Also has a swimming pool.
Offering camel safaris, desert safaris staying at the camp Rawala Canoi, and other local tours.
Offering camel, jeep, and horse safaris, accommodation in tents.
Also desert safaris staying at camp in Pushkar.
Camping is perhaps the best way of enjoying the wonders of nature given to Himachal and sharing the warmth of its people.
You can carry your own gear along or opt for any one of the several camps that are pitched in various parts of the State.
These camps offer accommodation, catering and variety of activities like hiking, fishing, nature tours and rafting.
Most of these offer quality facilities and services.
Himachal has camps at Sarchu in Lahaul besides built accomodation, and tents are available at Sangla and Kalpa in Kinnaur and Kaza in Spiti part of Lahaul & Spiti district.
The Youth Hostel association of India runs camps at Dalhousie (Chamba) and at KulluManali.
Camps run by the private sector are at Barog in Solan district,  Baspa (Sangla) valley and Kalpa in Kinnaur, at Tabo in Spiti, at Al Hilal  (Taragarh) and Dharamsala in Kangra, at Shoja near Kullu and Mashobra and  Baldian near Shimla Adventure camps are likely to be available soon in the  Pabbar valley in the Jubbal Hatkoti Rohru area in Shimla district.
Boparais organization is running a camping site at Barog in district Solan.
Boparais organization is situated on Chandigarh Shimla highway.
Since most of the peaks of the Garhwal Himalayas are difficult to scale in winter, a climb to a mini peak, Chandrashila, in Chamoli district of Uttar Pradesh, is arranged for trek programs.
This includes scaling, skiing, and trekking, through a landscape teeming with exotic flora and fauna, lakes and meadows, full of fresh snow.
The grassy slopes covered with snow, make it an ideal ski course Drive 185 kms to Guptakashi (1319 m) from Rishikesh.
Starting at Rishikesh, this 10 day long trek, passes through Pipalkoti, Kalpeshwar, Bansi Narain, Godiyala, Rudranath, and Sagar, and ends at Gopeshwar.
Hang gliding, at its most primitive level, fulfils humankind's desire to emulate the birds. Though a relatively recent entrant within the ambit of adventure sports, hang gliding has really caught on with clubs coming up in cities such as Pune, Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Mumbai, Devlali, Bangalore and Kalaheti.
According to experts, while India has good thermal soaring effects during the summer months, and offers hill soaring almost round the year, the soaring in the winter months although too static is also good for hang gliding.
Several sites in India have been identified by expert hang gliders with those in the lower reaches of the Himalayas rated as/among the best in the world.
Situated at an elevation of 3566 m, the valley of HarkiDoon, is surrounded by glittering peaks and dense forests.
The lush forest cover is abundant in wildlife, and is a veritable paradise for birdwatchers and nature lovers.
The trek starts at Netwar, passes through Osla, and ends at HarkiDoon.
The trek from Netwar to Osla, is through dense forests of chestnuts, walnuts, willows and chinars.
The trek from Osla to HarkiDoon, is through terraced mountain fields, sylvan meadowsand conifer forests.
The ideal time to trek is during the rainy season, when the entire valley is abloom with vibrant flowers.
During the rainy season the starting point of the trek, is Purola on the Purola Netwar motor road.
A thrill minute adventure sport where split-second decisions can literally make or mar, heliskiing is probably the most exciting sport to be introduced in the subcontinent.
Though expensive and exclusive, heliskiing ultimate adventure sport is fast gaining popularity.
Then of course, there is a range of the conventional sporting activities, which can be viewed at various stadiums.
One of these is an addiction called cricket and the best place to watch this game is in an open enclosure, surrounded by roughly 50,000 frenzied fans! No wonder, it's called the 'religion' of the subcontinent.
Marwari the desert horse of Rajasthan.
Young horses are bought and reared in the hills.
Trevor's Tank is popular for bird watching with various species of birds like pigeons, peacocks and partridges.
Guru Shikhar is the highest peak on the Mount Abu which provides an excellent view of the whole town.
A small shaivite shrine and a temple of Dattatreya situated on the top of the hill are the two important points to visit.
The best way to experience the real magic of Thar Desert, Rajasthan is with the help of Desert Safari.
Rajasthali, Rajasthan Government Handicrafts Emporium and Khadi Bhandar are the major shopping places in Mount Abu.
April to June and October to November are the best time to visit the town.
Camel safari could be the best choice for the adventure-seeking tourists moving around the interiors of Thar desert, witnessing the cities and historical ruins of the city.
A unique opportunity to explore the small villages of Rajasthan, camel safari is most exciting and adventurous.
A wonderful activity on an open landscape of Thar Desert, Jeep Safari offers an excellent opportunity to explore the beautiful, calm and colorful land of Rajasthan.
With a blend of fun and excitement, Jeep Safari in Thar Desert of Rajasthan covers some of the most magnificent destinations of Rajasthan.
Majestic Sand Dunes in the Thar Desert is a unique offering of Rajasthan that is away from the Rajasthan colorful culture, wildlife, historical monuments, forts, gardens and lakes.
Untouched by the human skills and behaviors, the Sand Dunes of Rajasthan is a perfect gift of nature that presents magical view of the desert.
Overlooked by the blue sky, the wind shaped dunes attracts large number of tourist from all over the world and any trip to Rajasthan is incomplete without a trip to the sand dunes of Rajasthan.
The ripples formed by the dunes create a perfect location for the photographers to shoot.
The best way to explore the desert of Rajasthan is through camel safari, the most popular mode of desert sightseeing.
The interiors of Rajasthan can only be viewed through this mode which is often called as 'ships of Desert'.
Camel Safari in Rajasthan dates back to 16th century, which was primarily used to carry species and goods, have now become an important mode of recreation.
The magic of ancient camel caravan could be seen in the present form of Camel Safari that operates in the Thar Desert of Rajasthan.
An important part of Rajasthan tour, Camel Safari gives an inner view of the traditional and colorful Rajasthan.
Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner are known for the sand dunes but the most popular among them is Jaisalmer.
Most of the sand dunes are located in the surroundings of Jaisalmer.
Sam Sand Dunes is a perfect tourist destination known for the sunset and sunrise point.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the best nature's gift to the human beings.
Sam Sand Dunes is one of the most popular dunes located on the turf of Thar Desert in Jaisalmer that attracts huge number of tourists throughout the year.
Manvar Desert is best for the outdoor adventures and excitement.
Visitors can keep themselves busy by going to the tribal villages, seeing desert wild life, witnessing the craft of local craftsman.
Bikaner is located to the north of Rajasthan popularly known as a camel country.
One of the ten most luxurious trains in the world, Palace On Wheels could be described as the pride of India known for the wonderful, unparallel, unforgettable and unique style onboard.
One of the finest ways to discover the royal land of Rajasthan, Palace On wheels passes through the inspiring, incomparable, implausible, impressive and inspirational land of India.
India's first vacation train, Palace On wheels started its royal journey in the year 1982 with the collective efforts of Indian Railway and Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation.
Today, this glorious Palace On wheels train has become an integral part of Royal Rajasthan and an Honor for India that covers some of the best tourist destinations in Rajasthan.
The royal journey rolls throughout the year expect between the month of May and August.
One of the world's most exciting journeys, the Palace on Wheels offers the world class services and facilities onboard.
The royal journey begins from Delhi and ends at Delhi after going through the destinations like Jaipur- Jaisalmer- Jodhpur- Sawai Madhopur-Chittaurgarh- Udaipur- Bharatpur- Agra- Delhi.
Pushkar fair is held every year on the auspicious fool moon day of the Hindu month of Karthik (October-November).
Rajasthan - the land bejeweled with immense natural & architectural wonders.
Albert Hall Museum Jaipur is supposed to be the oldest museum of the state.
Tourism Department has identified a number of new sites for creation of tourist complexes.
Haryana Tourism manages a number of hotels, motels and restaurants in all the districts of Haryana.
Panipat is situated on the banks of the river Yamuna, and here the three historical battles of Panipat were fought.
Panipat is an industrial town and is known for its handloom products.
Karnal, 'city of Daanvir Karan' has been a walled town as far as it is possible to trace and may have had a citadel one time.
Karnal is famous for Shoes, agriculture research institutions and Basmati Rice.
Panchkula district has a sub tropical continental monsoon climate where we find seasonal rhythm, hot summer, cool winter, unreliable rainfall and great variation in temperature.
Some of the loveliest place to travel are, Sangla Valley and Kalpa in district Kinnaur, Naldera, Narkanda and Sarahan in district Shimla, Manali and Manikaran in district Kullu, Dharamshala in district Kangra and Tabo in Lahaul & Spiti.
Palampur is famous for its agricultural university and tea gardens.
Himachal Pradesh is an excellent area to visit, for wildlife lovers, bird watchers and adventure tourists.
Shimla is a popular city with tourists.
The best months of the year to visit the Shimla are March-June (spring) September-October (autumn) and December-January (to experience the winter snow fall).
The snow clad Himalayas are visible from Shimla.
Rajasthan offers an extensive variety of cuisine's for its visitors- the variations being as diverse as its culture, its hereditary structure, its geography and its climate.
The royal charisma of Rajasthan tour brands it the most desiring tourist destination in the world.
The natural heritage in India is as rich and diverse as the cultural heritage.
The wildlife sanctuaries and the national parks here give you an essence of the same.
Nestled in the rich land is the Royal Bengal Tiger, the only home to the Royal Tiger Cat.
Bengal Tiger is the fastest running animal.
If you are fascinated by the royal Bengal tiger and wish to see it in its natural surroundings, a visit to these tiger reserves is bound to be an enchanting one.
Corbett National Park Corbett is a haven for Tigers as well as its prey, which include four kinds of Deer, Wild Boar and some lesser-known animals.
The Golden Temple is located in the holy city of the Sikhs, Amritsar, once and the dense forest home of Guru Nanak.
Dharamsala over looks the plains and is surrounded by dense pine trees and Deodar forests.
A nearby snowline with numerous streams and cool healthy atmosphere makes the surroundings very attractive.
Once known as an important seat of administration, Kangra the capital city of Chand dynasty tells a story of glory, which has faded into history.
One of the most picturesque valleys of lower Himalayas, the valley, sheltered by the sublime Dhauladhar hills, is green and luxuriant.
There is surfeit of adventure in the high land of Sikkim accompanied by lush green mountain trails, the stupas, monasteries and temples.
Get acquainted with the rich culture and heritage that is just grotesque and charming with its unbounded delightful rituals and festivities.
Sikkim presents a leisure trip- a cruise of adventure and exploring.
Since age's humans have a lust deep in their heart to fly like a bird in the vast blue sky, to some extent we humans are able to quench our this thrust by taking up the adventure of aero-sport to fly in open skies.
Himalayas are the world's top-notch mountain chain crowning with snow-capped peaks of 26,000 feet in height.
Trekking in India is an unforgettable experience as it not only let you to experience the unexplored trails made by nature.
Trekking also bring the visitor directly in touch with the country and its people and helps you to appreciate the mountain environment.
Himalayas are known as the one of the youngest mountain ranges in the world and is counted among the best trekking regions in the world.
The Indian Himalayan range is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular and impressive mountain ranges in the world.
The adventure trip inside the Thar desert is the one that you won't be able to forget your whole life.
Tourists can still enjoy the same desert experience in the Sam Sand Dunes in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, where special cultural performances are also organized by the Rajasthan tourism department for the entertainment of tourists in the evening.
The Gir National Park is a mixed deciduous forest with teak, flame of the forest, some Acacia and Banyan trees.
Gir national park is also home to one of the largest Leopard populations in any park in India.
There are numerous Tiger reserves in India, that are preserving this ferocious beast, but nowhere can you see them as often, and as regularly as in Kanha National Park.
One of the finest bird parks in the world, Bharatpur Bird Sanctuary (Keoladeo Ghana Natiuonal Park) is a reserve that offers protection to faunal species as well.
The major attractions of tourists visiting the park are the numerous migratory birds, which come from as far away as Siberia and Central Asia and spend their winters in Bharatpur, before returning to their breeding grounds.
One of the major attention grabber after the Bharatpur sanctuary is Government Museum of Bharatpur, which provides a glimpse of the past royal splendour of Bharatpur.
The Sariska park is home to numerous carnivores including Leopard, Wild Dog, Jungle Cat, Hyena, Jackal, and Tiger.
Sariska is also well known for its large population of Rhesus Monkeys, which are found in large numbers around Talvriksh.
Ranthambor National Park is included under the Project Tiger Reserves of the world and is more popular for its tiger population.
Viewing a tiger in its natural habitat is every wildlife zealot’s most desiring fantasy, which can be satisfied in forest of Ranthambore.
Ranthambore Wild Life Park is among the few sights in the world where the tiger regime is supreme.
The Ranthambore Wild Life Park is an abode of 272 species of birds and reptiles including the marsh crocodile and amphibians.
Ranthambhore also facilitates Jeep safari to explore the unexplored treasures of the forest, as it is the best means to explore the Royal Tiger.
The other attraction in the Wildlife National Park is the ruins of Ranthambore Fort and Jogi Mahal that date back to the 10th century.
Jogi Mahal now converted into Forest Rest House is famous for the second largest Banyan tree in India.
The Taj is undoubtedly one of the most spectacular buildings of the world.
Renowned for its architectural magnificence and aesthetic beauty, Taj counts among man's proudest creations and is invariably included in the list of the world's foremost wonders.
Described by the Indian classical poet Tagore as a "tear on the face of eternity", the Taj Mahal is undoubtedly the zenith of Moghul architecture and quite simply one of the world's most marvellous buildings.
Agra with its riches of architecture splendor, bazaars and ornaments is amongst the most outstanding cities of the world.
Visitors from all over the world throng to the Shiipgram city during Taj Mahotsav and enjoy it up to the full extent.
Visitors coming to Agra will definitely take one along with him to preserve Taj in their memories.
Agra also holds the charm of shopping in leather bags, embroidery shoes and of course the Petha (sweetmeat) is a specialty of Agra.
Even if situated in the middle of nowhere, the Khajuraho temple complex site is one the most popular places both foreign and Indian tourists.
Temples of Khajuraho hold the attention of a visitor with their sculptural art, which is so exquisite and intricate, that one cannot even dream of cloning it now.
Perfect in execution and sublime in expressions Khajuraho temples are a dedication to the womanhood.
The artist's creative instincts have beautifully captured various facets and moods of life in stone.