He slowly poured the drink over a large chunk of ice he has especially chiseled off a larger block. He didn't particularly like his drinks cold, but he knew that the drama of chiseling the ice and then pouring a drink over it looked far more impressive than how he actually liked it. It was all about image and he'd managed to perfect the image that he wanted to project. A random paragraph can also be an excellent way for a writer to tackle writers' block. Writing block can often happen due to being stuck with a current project that the writer is trying to complete. By inserting a completely random paragraph from which to begin, it can take down some of the issues that may have been causing the writers' block in the first place.Another productive way to use this tool to begin a daily writing routine. One way is to generate a random paragraph with the intention to try to rewrite it while still keeping the original meaning. The purpose here is to just get the writing started so that when the writer goes onto their day's writing projects, words are already flowing from their fingers. According to legend, the origin of Pushkar dates back to the time when Lord Brahma was on his way in search of a tranquil land to perform a "Yagna", A lotus fell from the hand of the Lord into this valley.
Pushkar fair is one of the most colorful fairs of India.
Beside trading of horse camels, cows and bulls, there are exciting camelcart races and cultural cents, clothes household items and leather goods are for sale during the fair on the full moon of Kartik , pilgrims take a holy dip in the lake.
Along the banks of the Pushkar Lake is the former residence of Raja Man Singh of Ajmer, Man Mahal.
Presently Man Mahal is covered to RTDC sarvour Tourist Bunglow ensuring convenient accommodation to travelers.
While Shopping in Aimer, one can go on a buying spree of various kinds of items representing Rajasthani culture and style.
The 'Ittar' (perfume) is a major specialty of Ajmer.
During the Urs fair, folk artisans and craftsmen display their talent and offer a tempting range of intriguing and colorful items at competitive prices.
Shopping is a delightful experience in Pushkar fair; wide range of Handicraft items is displayed on roadside stalls.
From Ajmer the nearest airport is Jaipur which is 135kms away.
Ajmer is connected with bus from all places like Jaipur, Agra, Aligarh, Abu road, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Barmer, Haridwar, Chittorgarh, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Nagaur.
Ajmer the city where the Dargah of the Great Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti stands is a sacred center of pilgrimage.
Hallowed by the memories of the great seer, Ajmer has earned the epithet of Madinatul Hind or the Madina of India.
South west of Jaipur, Ajmer is an oasis wrapped in the green hills.
The Ajmer city was founded by Raja Ajay Pal Chauhan in the 7th Century A .D. and continued to be a major centre of the Chauhan power till 1193 A .D. When Prithviraj Chauhan lost it to Mohammed Ghauri.
Today, Ajmer is a popular pilgrimage centre for the Hindus as well as Muslims.
Ajmer is especially famous for the Dargah Shariftomb of the Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti, which is equally revered by the Hindus and Muslims.
Ajmer is a centre of culture and education, the British chose it for its prestigious Mayo College a school exclusively for Indian nobility.
Ajmer is also the base for visiting Pushkar (11 km.), the abode of Lord Brahma, lying to its west with a temple and a picturesque lake.
The Pushkar Lake is a sacred spot for Hindus.
During the month of Kartik (Oct. /Nov.), devotes throng in large numbers here to take a dip in the sacred lake.
Ajaipal Chauhan founded Ajmer in the seventh century.
Ajmer was also favorite residence for the great Mughals.
The bus stand in Ajmer is located near the RTDC hotel Khadim and the railway is further north and most of the hotels are west of the stations.
Khwaja saheb is also known as Sanjari as his ancestors belonged to sanjar.
Khwaja Ishaq Shami, one of his predecessors settled in a hamlet called Chishti near Hirat.
Khwaja saheb is the landmark of Ajmer and one of the holiest of Muslim shrines in the country.
The red temple is a Digambar Jain temple which has a double storey hall adjacent to the main temple.
The hall displays a series of large gold plated wooden figures depicting legends from Jain mythology.
The entire hall is richly adorned by glass mosaic, precious stones, gold and silver work. 
The fort also has Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter. 
The fort also has Miran Saheb ki Dargha who was the governor of the fort and laid down his life in an encounter.
The fort is a masterpiece of Indo Islamic architecture.
The 'Baradari' pavilion was built by Shah Jahan, to facilitate his long stays in Ajmer.
The Baradari and the adjoining parks are the lungs of city and favorite outing spot.
Places to See in Ajmer at the foot of a barren hill, is situated India's most important Pilgrimage centre for people from all faith.
Centuries after Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti’s demise, his teachings are still a source of guidance and inspiration for mankind.
It is believed that Khwaja Saheb had a vision of Ajmer in a dream while in Madina, and he also received the spiritual inspiration to come here.
In the corner of the inner court of the Dargah, is a magnificent building in white marble with a long and narrow court having low arcade and delicate carvings with trellis work. 
A remarkable structure, this is a masterpiece of indo Islamic architecture located on the outskirts of the Ajmer city.
The fort was the site of the military activity during the Mughal period later used as a sanatorium by the British.
Once the royal residence of Emperor Akbar, the museum houses a rich repository of the Mughal and Rajput armor and exquisite sculptures.
The former British Residency, overlooking the artificial lake, Ana sagar, has now been converted to the circuit House.
The lake and the cenotaph and the shrine of the Hindu reformer Swami Dayanand, founder of the Arya Samaj movement in India, can be viewed from here.
A place to See in Alleppey Kuttanad, called the rice bowl of Kerala because of her wealth of paddy crops, and is at the very heart of the backwaters.
The scenic countryside of Kuttanad with its shimmering waterways also has a rich crop of banana, cassava and yam; this is perhaps the only region in the world where farming is done 1. 5 to 2 m below sea level.
Inland waterways which flow above land level are an amazing feature of this region.
Inland waterway is one of the most popular picnic spots in Alappuzha.
Entertainment facilities at the Vijaya beach park add to the attractions of the beach.
There is also an old lighthouse which is greatly fascinating to visitors.
According to mythology a young brahmin dived into the Vembanad Lake to perform his evening ablutions and the water made way for land to rise from below, thus creating the enchanting island of Pathiramanal (sands of midnight). 
This little island on the backwaters is a favorite haunt of hundreds of rare migratory birds from different parts of the world.
The island lies between Thaneermukkom and Kumarakom, and is accessible only by boat.
The ancient shrine is an internationally renowned pilgrim centre dedicated to the Serpent God Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are the beloved consorts of Nagaraja.
Sarpa Yakshi and Naga Yakshi are the beloved consorts of Nagaraja.
One of the oldest churches in Kerala, the St Mary's Church is believed to be one of the seven established by St Thomas.
It is now a holy shrine and spiritual resort where thousands of devotees gather for prayer, receive favors and feel amply gratified.
Here, a 250 year old historically important beacon of light is preserved intact in its original and primitive form Built in the typical Kerala architectural style, this temple is famous all over India for the Palpayasam, the daily offering of deliciously sweet milk porridge.
Paintings of the Dasavatharam are on display on the inner walls of the Chuttambalam Ottanthullal, a satiric art form originated by the poet Kunchan Nambiar, was first performed on the premises of this temple.
The St Sebastian's Church here is an important Christian pilgrim centre.
Annual festival Arthunkal Perunnal the feast of the patron saint established in 1810, the church is dedicated to St George.
It is believed that prayers and offerings at this church help to heal all mental disorders and other ailments.
During the annual feast (5th, 6th and 7th of May) pilgrims from all parts of South India, irrespective of caste and creed, visit the church and seek the blessings of the saint.
The Kettukazhcha festival at this temple draws large crowds of devotees.
Built by Marthanda Varma, this palace at Karthikapally in Kayamkulam is famous for its mural depicting the story of Gajendramoksham Dating back to the 18th century; this exquisite piece of art is one of the largest murals in Kerala.
Many fascinating legends are associated with this 11th century statue of Lord Buddha.
Referred to as the Venice of the East by travelers from across the world, this backwater country is also home to diverse animal and bird life. 
By virtue of its proximity to the sea, the town has always enjoyed a unique place in the maritime history of Kerala.
Today, Alappuzha has grown in importance as a backwater tourist centre, attracting several thousands of foreign tourists each year.
Alappuzha is also famous for its boat races, houseboat holidays, beaches, marine products and coir industry.
A land of lush paddy fields, Kuttanad is called the Rice Bowl of Kerala and is one of the few places in the world where farming is done below sea level.
The city of Allahabad is among the largest cities of Uttar Pradesh and situated at the confluence of three rivers Ganga, Yamuna and the invisible Saraswati.
The meeting point is known as Triveni and is especially sacred to Hindus.
PRAYAG is one of the historic & mythological cities of India with glorious past and present.
Allahabad is a city of mixed culture of Hindu,Muslims, Jains and Christans.
According to Hindu Mythology, Lord Brahma, the creator God of the Trinity, chose a land on earth (ie Prayag) to perform Prakrista Yag, at the beginning of the creation and he also refereed to it as Tirth raj or the King of all pilgrimage centers.
As per writing of Padam Puran as the sun is amongst the moon and the moon amongst the stars, likewise Prayag is best amongst all places of pilgrimage.
The bathing at Prayag is mentioned in Brahma Puran s in the month of Magha at the bank of Ganga Yamuna in Prayag bestows results of millions and millions of Ashvmedha YajnaPrayag is birth place of Som, Varuna and Prjapati.
Prayag has been associated with mythological personalities in Brahmanical (Vedic) and Buddhist Literatures.
The Present Jhunsi is a very close to sangam was the kingdom of Chandrabanshiya (lunar clan) king Pururava.
1575 AD Emperor Akbar founded the city in by the name of ILLAHABAS which has now become ALLAHABAD meant.
Allahabad has been rich in numerous Victorian and Georgian buildings made in synthesis with Indian architectural traditions. 
This Allahabad city was the heart of the Indian Freedom Movement against the British rule with Anand Bhawan being the epicenter; it was in Allahabad the Mahatama Gandhi proposed his program of nonviolent resistance to liberate India.
Allahabad is basically an administrative and educational city.
From the days of civilization Allahabd has been seat of learning, wisdom and writing.
Allahabd is the most vibrant politically spiritually conscious and spiritually awakened city of India.
The holy place SANGAM is the place where the three holy rivers GANGA, YAMUNA, and the mythical SARASWATI merge into one.
SANGAM offers fascinating view at sunrise and sunset.
The place comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting millions of devotees from all across the country.
The place comes alive, during the Kumbh Mela and the Ardh Kumbh, attracting millions of devotees from all across the country.
The lofty Allahabad fort, built by Emperor Akbar in 1583 AD, on the bank of river YAMUNA stands close to the SANGAM.
For a celestial trip of the scientific kind, visit the planetarium its worth every moment here you can take your weight on Moon and Jupiter, a moon model on display.
When Gandhiji started Salt Satyagraha in 1930, Allahabad took a leading part at present it houses office of Jawahar Lal Nehru Fund and a children school for creative Art.
Allahabad one of the oldest cities of India and a pilgrimage centre and is also famous for the Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh Melas held every twelve and six years respectively.
Allahabad is also known for its annual Magh Mela (mini Kumbh Mela) and colorful Dussehra festival.
The present city of Allahabad was founded by the Mughal emperor Akbar in 1575 A .D. realizing its strategic importance as a waterway landmark in north India, Akbar built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy 'Sangam'.
Every 12th year during the months of Jan, Feb world famous Kumbh Mela is held here on the banks of the holy Sangam Ardha Kumbh Mela is held every 6th year.
The Magh Mela is the annual version of the Kumbh and Ardh kumbh mela which starts every year from Makar Sankranti in Jan.and ends at Maha Shivratri in Feb.
A fabulous Sita Ram Temple in the palace attracts number of devotees, especially during Ramnavami. Kolhapur, I have heard, does not have much to offer a tourist.
Some interesting architecture; all designed by a chap named Charles Mant, who a Kolhapur maharaja hired in the late nineteenth century to change the look of the city.
A peculiar person, Mant committed suicide after constructing some two dozen masterpieces because he was terrified that one of buildings would collapse. 
The shrine is crowded throughout the year and the best time to visit is in the afternoon when the crowd thins out.
A visit to Kolhapur was not complete without a trip to this ordinary temple.
The darshan to the temple done, we headed out of the city towards the mountain temple of Jyotiba, another special pilgrimage spot.
The country roads are lined with bricks kilns. Industrious Maharashtrian women, very traditionally clad, toil side by side with the men folk at the kilns, ferrying bricks back and forth.
An occasional buffalo, with unusually long curved horns clip-clops along the road at a rapid pace, even as its owner huffs and puffs behind, desperately attempting to keep up.
Jyotiba temple is around 15 kilometers away from the city.
As the auto rickshaw wound its way up the steep mountain, pretty ashtambar trees and mango orchards come into view.
A cannon and a statue of Nandi (Shiva's mount) are located inside the temple complex.
"Because Jyotiba was formed by the amalgamation of the jyotis (souls) of three gods, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva who took the form of Jyotiba to destroy the evil Ratnasur.
The Panhala place has a colorful history and only a guide can give one the proper historical perspective of the fort.
Panhala was built in 1112 by Raja Bhoj from Madhya Pradesh whose domain extended over a very large area.
Panhala is the only fort in Maharashtra where you can roam within its walls in your vehicle.
During the times of Shivaji there were 600 people living in this fort. Today over 300 people resides here.
One can see 100 kms of countryside and the Sahyadri hills in each direction.
At the entrance of the fort is magnificent statue of Baji Prabhu Deshpande.
Shivaji won this fort from Ibrahim Adil Shah in 1659, but the Bijapuri army, lead by Siddhi Johar attacked the fort in 1660, with 50,000 men and formed a 50 kilometers ring around the fort and stayed put for a good six months.
Panhala-Vishalgad is a popular trekking route; it takes trekkers 24 hours to reach Vishalgad.
Panhala is 3,127 feet above sea level, but there is no scarcity of water around here.
The entire coastline of the western state of Maharashtra -- starting from the well known towns of Kihim and Alibag in the north to the town of Vengurla in the south where it merges with that of Goa.
Goa is dotted with golden beaches, picturesque creeks, solitary lighthouses, ancient forts, stunning cliffs and charming fishing hamlets, many of them still remain the way nature sculpted them. 
Untouched by the consumerism that has devoured most beaches near Bombay and Goa -- thereby driving it out of the reach of an average income earner -- these Maharashtra locales suffer from no such ruin.
They offer what the real travelers is looking for – vast open spaces, undisturbed solitude and the prospect to do something really different.
Many locals, having already sensed an opportunity, offer basic "extra-room-to-let" type of accommodation. 
In Maharashtra Marathi and Konkani is spoken, English is often understood.
The entire Indian coastline is situated between the Tropic of Cancer and the equator.
Maharashtra is one of the better administered states of India, the roads and public utilities are in good condition.
This is true even for the smaller roads that meander off from the main Bombay-Goa National Highway and transport you to offbeat locations.
Most of these smaller roads, especially those that run parallel to the coast, qualify as scenic drives because of the terrain that they traverse. 
The people are literate and well off, living in neat and clean villages they depend upon fishing for their livelihood and very little agriculture occurs here.
However, the southern portion, in and around the town of Ratnagiri, is famous for its Alphonso mangoes.
Maharashtra is proud of its history of having stood up, initially, against the Mughal invaders from the north and then later against the British Empire.
Chhatrapati Shivaji, a Maratha warrior, who harassed the invaders by occupying forts on hill-tops all over the region and adopting tactics that are now termed as guerrilla warfare, is a hero.
Though most of his forts are located inland and have now become weekend tourist attractions for the locals, quite a few of them are located on the coastline and – fortunately – are not tourist attractions.
Fish and other exotica from the Arabian Sea dominate the cuisine.
Most of the sleepy towns you encounter on these stretches only have 'eateries' or communal dining rooms, as opposed to restaurants.
Fresh tender coconut water is another way to quench your thirst.
You do not require permits to visit any of the coastal areas in Maharashtra and neither are these towns out of bounds to foreigners.
Listen to this long-standing myth about Matunga, the mini-Madras of Bombay.
Eighteen-year old Venkatachalam Subramaniam Iyer from Irinjalakuda in Kerala, armed with his SSC and shorthand and typewriting certificates, arrived in Dadar station, seeking a future in the city.
Bombay, or Mumbai as it is now called, is the commercial capital of India, a city of entrepreneurs, concrete towers, clubs and discos, cricket, Bollywood and more.
The word Mumbai is derived from Mumbadevi, the patron goddess of the Koli fisherfolk, the oldest inhabitants of Mumbai.
The name Mumbai, in its final form, dates back to the 18 the century, for Portuguese, the name Bombay is Good Bay ("Bom" "Bay" Good Bay).
Mumbai is a cluster of seven islands
In 1661, Charles II of England received the islands of Bombay as dowry when he married Princess Catherine of Braganza.
The British Government leased the islands to the East India Company, who developed it into a thriving trading port.
The promise of business opportunities and religious freedom drew people to Bombay from all over the country.
The city also became a hotbed of political activity during the struggle for independence, hosting the First Indian National Congress in 1885.
Today, Mumbai is the country's financial and cultural centre, it is also home to a thriving film industry.
Bombay is seen, to the teeming masses that flock there to live and work, as a place where opportunities abound.
Its inhabitants, an amalgam of great wealth and abject poverty, are swept into the endless maelstrom of activity that characterizes this Bombay city of dreams.
Being on the coast of the Arabian Sea, Mumbai's climate is largely influenced by the sea.
The climate of Bombay is moderate, with summers hot and winters pleasant. The monsoon lasts from June to September, and rainfalls heavy.
Mumbai is a great place for shopping, where you can find everything from all across the country.
The favorite for shoppers of all shapes, sexes and wallet sizes is textiles and ready-made garments, including export surplus apparel, which you can pick up at throwaway prices.
. Heera Panna Market is the place for ‘foreign goods’, clothes with designer labels at reasonable prices, electronics and household stuff, while for trendy boutiques you could check out Kemp’s Corner, Napean Sea Road, Warden Road and Linking Road near Bandra.
Colaba Causeway in downtown Mumbai is another great area for shopping for shoes, clothes, bags and everything you can think of and much that you can’t. 
The best time to visit Mumbai is between November and February it is advisable to avoid Mumbai during the monsoon months.
Chattrapati Shivaji Terminus, formerly known as Victoria Terminus (VT), this is one of the most imposing buildings in Mumbai.
At the entrance to the terminus is a large statue of Queen Victoria, the clock on tower is 3.19m in diameter.
Stone gargoyles, peacocks, monkeys, elephants and British lions are placed among the buttresses, domes, turrets, spires and stained glass windows; the Terminus looks more like a cathedral than a railway station.
The Chowpatty Beach overlooks a bay, and turns into a magical brightly lit funfair at night with vendors, pony rides, fortune tellers, performing monkeys, fishermen and families out for a stroll.
Ship lights twinkle in the distance, and Marine Drive, the city’s most famous boulevard, decorates the bay in a dramatic arc of streetlights christened the Queen’s Necklace.
Marine Drive extends from Nariman Point to Malabar Hill past the famous Chowpatty beach, and is built on land reclaimed from Back Bay along the Arabian Sea. 
The Gateway of India was built in 1924 to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary to India.
Built in the 16th century Gujarati style, the monument stood testament to British supremacy. Ironically, it was from here that the last British troops left the country after independence.
Haji Ali Mosque is located at the end of a long causeway protruding into the Arabian Sea.
The white mosque is the tomb of Saint Haji Ali, a wealthy Muslim who renounced the world and proceeded to Mecca.
The Hanging Gardens or Ferozshah Mehta Gardens were laid in 1881 on top of a reservoir on Malabar Hill; the garden provides a spectacular view of the city.
High Court’s building, designed in the English Gothic Style, was built in 1878; the main structure rises 54.2 m in height and is surmounted by statues representing Justice and Mercy.
Better known as Flora Fountain after the beautiful stone fountain at its centre, Hutatma Chowk is the established business centre of Mumbai.
The Fountain was erected in 1869 in honour of Sir Bartle Frere, Governor of Bombay, who was responsible for shaping much of Bombay.
The Jain Temple, built in white marble, is dedicated to Adinath, the first apostle of the Jains.
The temple is decorated with paintings depicting incidents from the life of the Tirthankaras, the first floor of the temple is particularly dedicated to Parasnath.
Kala Ghoda (Black Horse) got its name from the imposing statue of King Edward VII, seated astride a black horse, which rested there.
The Kala Ghoda area is home to some of the city's most beautiful buildings - The Elphinstone College, the David Sassoon Library, the Army Navy Building and the once-celebrated Watson Hotel.
In an attempt to turn the area into an art district, city conservationists organized the Kalaghoda Fair, an open air craft bazaar, and cultural arena.
Near Kalbadevi are the Jama Masjid and the Mumbadevi temple, dedicated to the patron Goddess of Mumbai's original inhabitants.
North of the Crawford market is a predominantly Muslim area, dotted with Chawls (dwelling clusters), and home to some of the busiest and most colorful bazaars in Mumbai.
Mahatma Gandhi's residence in Bombay between 1917-34 has been converted into a museum Mani Bhavan (Gandhi Memorial), which displays pictures and books related to his life.
Also known as Netaji Subhas Chandra Marg, Marine Drive features a bustling waterfront promenade.
Marine Drive is built on land reclaimed along the Arabian coast, and runs from Nariman point to the foot of Malabar Hill, sunsets here are particularly beautiful.
The National Gallery of Modern art in Mumbai exhibits the work of prominent contemporary Indian artists.
The National Gallery is housed in the building that was formerly Sir Cowasji Jehangir Public Hall.
8 kilometers from the centre of the city is the Nehru Planetarium, it shows glimpses into the mysteries and wonders of outer space, and is particularly entertaining for children.
Prince of Wales Museum which opened in 1923 has an impressive collection of artifacts from places such as Elephanta Island, Jogeshwari Caves, and the Indus valley.
In Prince of Wales Museum there is a large collection of terra-cotta figurines, ivory carvings, statues, and miniatures.
Taraporewala Aquarium was opened in 1951 and has an interesting collection of marine and fresh water specimens.
Matheran is quaint hillside retreat was discovered in 1850 and is the nearest hill station from Mumbai, and provides a welcome respite from the heat and crowds of the city.
Lonavla and Khandala are twin resorts just over 100 kms from the rat race of Mumbai.
The Lonavla and Khandala towns are perched high on the Western Ghats, and popular tourist destinations.
Both towns are famous for their delicious chikki (molasses candy) and chocolate fudge.
Sanjay Gandhi National Park, previously known as the Borivali National Park, this protected forest area is on the northern outskirts of Mumbai.
The Lion Safari is popular attraction; however, the small population of animals, which includes a few tigers and panthers, faces extinction due to urban encroachment.
Bassein fortified city, built by the Portuguese, separates greater Mumbai from the Indian mainland.
The city of Bassein was at its architectural best in 1534, with one cathedral, five convents and 13 churches.
The Elephanta island is known as Gharapuri (fortress city).
Elephanta island, a well known tourist spot is accessible by boat from the Gateway of India. I started dancing. I started reading books. Teju started to plant trees.